Heather Riggs::  All right. So, if I could have you say your name, your class year and your current place of residence, then we start.
Ed Senn::  My name is Ed Senn and I’m the class of 1979, and I live in Washington, DC.
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  Great. So, is there something specific you came in wanting to talk about?
Ed Senn::  And so, we would have dinner with Professor Mendoza from the Biology department, with Scott McMurry, Mary Brant, or we would have cocktails with Dick Cervene, who was an Art professor here. He’s the one that taught us how to make martini and to drink it out of a crystal glass. There was so much spirit or camaraderie that was... made it such a special place. It’s still a special place, and I know that, or my hope is that the students today, that each generation has its own experience here which causes them to value life and friendships.
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  Great. What made you decide to come to Grinnell?
Ed Senn & Heather Riggs::  So I had heard about Grinnell, and when you’re a senior you get all this information from colleges so I just threw it in a box and I would ramble through the box and I got the Grinnell flier, I filled it out and sent it in and then, almost immediately I had professors that were calling me.
Ed Senn::  And I had professors that called and students that called and I think even Coach Obermiller called, and my first reaction was, “Oh, well, they really need the money,” and then I did the research on Grinnell and I was like, going, “No, they really don’t need the money and it’s a really good school.” So I applied and they offered me a financial aid package to make it the same price to go in-state in Virginia or to come to Grinnell. So, in that time I said, “Well, I should go visit.” I went. It was in April. I guess they let you know like April 1st or whatever that you’re admitted, so I had the package and I came out here by myself and in those days the way you traveled essentially was, my sister dropped me off at the airport in Washington, DC. You flew to Chicago, changed and flew to Des Moines. You got in a cab at the airport and it took you to downtown Des Moines to the bus station and you took the bus from Des Moines to Grinnell. The bus would let you off on like 6th and Main, or whatever it was, where there was a gas station and you walked from there to Grinnell House, which is where you would stay.
Ed Senn & Heather Riggs::  But there was none of this, “We will pick you up at the airport,” or any of that sort of that, y'know, any of that van type thing. They put you up in Grinnell House and there was a, my tour guide was, I think, Paul Matecky, who was the, either a freshman or a sophomore, and it was Alternative Lifestyles Weekend.
Ed Senn & Heather Riggs::  Well, I thought, y’know, this was a sign. It was sort of like, “Oh this is really good,” ‘cause I knew that I was gay but it was in the 70s and it was sort of like, well, you’re really, y’know, you really didn’t come out in high school and I thought, “Oh my gosh this place is incredible. It has co-ed dorms,” y’know, “it’s got a, the drinking age is 18. They have a pub on campus and it’s Alternative Lifestyles Weekend,” I thought, “Oh, this is perfect.” So I took it as a sign and.. that- I knew that I was supposed to be here.
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  Yeah. Was there a professor, student or staff member who had a strong influence on your time here?
Ed Senn::  The thing about it is that, part of it is, they always looked out for you. There was someone that was looking out for you, so you couldn’t go too far off the path before a professor would say, OK, what’s the deal here? That, for me, was good. That’s why I didn’t want a big school. I wanted someone that would keep an eye on me.
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  Yeah. What are your best or strongest memories of Grinnell?
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  What memories or images do you have of the town of Grinnell?
Ed Senn & Heather Riggs::  But, during our era there was so much entertainment on campus that you really didn’t want to leave. ‘Cause see, we were the generation where, well, we had Bruce Springsteen; we had Gil Scott Heron; we had The Police; we had Koko Taylor; we had Joan Armatrading, y’know We would always have these groups that were just about to be big.
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  What were, what makes your class distinct from the classes that came before you and the classes after?
Heather Riggs::  Yeah. During your time at Grinnell, did you see any transitions that the College went through?
Ed Senn::  Of course we had a different president and a different administration. The battles would be on divesting the stock that was in South Africa, or eating non-union grapes in the cafeteria. Seeing any changes, y’know we would always, I think we always had the instinctive reaction that the classes behind us were more conservative than we were and I think, whether it’s true or not, I think that that’s sort of like, oh, well, the good old days are behind us and the really cool people were older and the new classmates coming in probably want to bring back cheerleaders and we’d be like, “No! We don’t have cheerleaders here! If you wanted cheerleaders, you should’ve gone to Coe.” So I, y’know. I’m not certain I subscribe to the classes afterward are more conservative. After meeting the people last night from the class of ’86, I'd say, "No, they weren’t too conservative last night."
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  How has the College changed since you were a student here?
Ed Senn::  We didn’t have any of this secure- you didn’t have a card to get into any buildings. It was much more open. And the police would never come on campus. That was sort of an understood rule. And as a student you would never – if you had a problem with another student, you would never, you would never call anyone outside of the College to try to fix it. You would try to fix it yourself. You would go to your RA or someone like that. You tried to resolve any types of conflicts or problems.
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  Yeah. What impact did self-governance have on daily student life?
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  What was campus social life and student life like?
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  What were your favorite places on campus?
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  Yeah. How would you compare students of today with your classmates?
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  Yeah, it's pretty good. If you were writing a history of Grinnell College what would you include from your time here?
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  Which president was that?
Heather Riggs & Ed Senn::  Yeah, so I don’t have any more questions, do you have anything else you'd like to add?
