Diane Gutenkauf::  My name is Diane Gutenkauf. I live in Elmhurst, Illinois and I’m a member of the class of 1980.
Chelsie Salvatera::  OK, Diane, thank you for coming. First question: Why did you come to Grinnell College and what is your first memory of the campus?
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  Oh, I came to Grinnell as a transfer student. I had been going to a small college in Illinois that was having financial problems and I thought it would be better for me to find a school that was a little bit more stable. And, I didn’t apply to very many schools and Grinnell was something my parents suggested. They had heard of it; they knew about its academic reputation and I think they thought the social atmosphere would be a fit for me. So I applied to Grinnell and I got in as a transfer.
Diane Gutenkauf::  My first memory of the campus is, one of those classic Grinnell connection events. My parents drove me here, and we drove into the parking lot of the Forum and my dad went inside to figure out if this is where we supposed to be. He walks in the front door and this student walks up to him and says, “Mr. Gutenkauf! What are you doing here?” It was the daughter of friends of my parents, a professional colleague of my father’s. They lived near Iowa City, Cedar Rapids, and I did not know she was a student here. We’d been friends back and forth since childhood and our parents were very close friends. I had no idea that she went to school here, so the first person that we ran into was Anne Finkelstein. In the Foum. I thought, “OK, now I know this is gonna work out.”
Chelsie Salvatera::  Okay, perfect. So during your time at Grinnell was there a professor, staff or student who had a particularly strong influence on your life?
Diane Gutenkauf::  Yes, there was. I took an Anthropology class from John Andelson, and it must’ve been sophomore year because I hadn’t declared a major, wasn’t sure what I wanted to study. I thought Chemistry. I’d been a good science student in high school and I was interested in it but Chemistry class just wasn’t really clicking, here, and then I took this Anthropology class from John Andelson and was like, “Wow. I really like this.” And I proceeded to take every class I could that he offered the rest of my career here at Grinnell, and we still keep in touch.
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  And I am fascinated by the work that he does and we talk back and forth at some point and, anthropologist but, at some point in my professional career I started working in an arboretum that owned a prairie and I worked on interpreting the prairies and it was just about the same time that John was forming the Center for Prairie Studies so I got to come out here and kind of touch base and do some prairie visits on research I was doing. So for me that has just been fascinating, and it’s always great to come back and see him. We had many long conversations
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  What are your best memories of your time at Grinnell College?
Diane Gutenkauf::  I think most students become adults during college but I was seventeen when I got here as a sophomore, something I kept secret from most of my classmates. I did not want them to know that I was considerably younger than they were, but I really think I went well on the way to becoming an adult through bad decisions and good decisions. But I made it as a student, so I think a lot of those memories around finding my way in the world. I only lived in the dorm for a year, and then I moved into an apartment with a couple of girlfriends. Then I moved into a house that is no longer a group living situation house anymore. As a matter of fact, the Center for Prairie Studies is in the house I lived in. Then I got another apartment, then I stayed around…
Chelsie Salvatera::  Do you remember how your dorm room looked like?
Diane Gutenkauf::  Oh, my dorm room, I lived in, yeah, I do because it’s not there anymore. I lived in the second floor of Haines, and the layout were quads in the corners and then the loggia side there were single rooms and on the street side there were two two room doubles, and they were two room doubles, so you had a big outer room and then a smaller room off of that. The smaller room had the two closets and the sink, and the bigger room had enough room for the dresser. I think I managed to get my desk and my bed- I had the smaller inner room and my roommate was Liz Pomer had the bigger room. It was a lot bigger and there was room for both dressers and I’m sure we had a popcorn popper, or something to heat hot water and stuff like that in there. So my room was just this crackerbox with a radiator, we had big hot water radiators, and a window and two closets and a sink in the corner.
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  Wow. That’s pretty good for a sophomore.
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  Alright. Do you remember the kind of clothes-
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  Well, it was the 70s, so clothing choices probably weren’t- or fashion, I should say fashion was not top of mind for most students. Not that we didn’t dress deliberatively, it’s that there was something too bourgeois about worrying about what was being dictated to people with money, and none of us had money.
Diane Gutenkauf::  So, clothing. So it was jeans. It was jeans and t-shirts almost universally. Although, I did own quite a few sort of cotton, flowy skirt things and I remember wearing those when it was hotter out. I had this beautiful blue wool skirt that had been my mother’s that she bought on her honeymoon, so this great vintage skirt with kind of an inverted pleat in the front. It was really classic-lined, knee-length, and I wore it in the winter and I loved it.
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  There used to be a women’s clothing store in town, and I remember, I don’t even know why I was in there. I must’ve needed something for a special occasion and I didn’t have anything, and I went in there and I found a jacket that worked with the skirt and I remember thinking at the time how amazing this was. I had this great tweed skirt and here’s this jacket that I bought. It felt like a big splurge. But, dressing up, I don’t ever remember having an occasion to dress up outside of the Waltz.
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  Okay. Awesome. Was there a book that influenced you most in college?
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  Okay. So you felt like it was here at Grinnell where you learned how to do that?
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  So how exactly has Grinnell... took you to, or influenced where you are now like, your career-wise, as since we're talking about...
Diane Gutenkauf::  I worked at an arboretum. The difficulty arboreta have is connecting with people that come there. You come in and you see this big sort of forest-y place, that isn’t really a woodland and it’s a deliberately organized collection of trees but it’s not readily apparent unless you’re kind of in the know. And, when you- we wanted to connect with a much broader audience, help people come there and really understand what’s going on, so the trick is, how do you get people to care about trees? What’s the hook? How do you get them to care about what we do with trees, which is so esoteric.
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  I mean, who collects trees and organizes them according to their genus and species and where they come from in the world and what can you learn about it? So, coming from a liberal arts background made it so easy to say, OK, here you bring in poetry and you bring in science and you bring in all these things and find out what people already know and connect with them and that’s really what came out of my Grinnell education, was this curiosity and willingness to just make this experience bigger than the one discipline that you think it would be.
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  OK, I’m going to go back to images of Grinnell town?
Diane Gutenkauf::  So my images of Grinnell, and my memories of Grinnell are, “I need to get a something. I’m gonna go into town and look for it. I don’t need to drive to Des Moines or Iowa City to just buy a new pair of socks or sneakers or a wrench." And, I walk through town now and I see a town that is still surviving, but it doesn’t have that same feel any more of a really thriving center. It’s not, the farmer’s market’s great. There was no farmer’s market then, and it was hard to find local fruits or vegetables because that’s not what people grew around here.
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  But, my other memory of town, I mean, is sort of the complete flip of that, is that students only lived in slum housing. There was no real oversight of the kind of housing available to students and people who had decent houses didn’t like to rent to students ‘cause frankly, we were really hard on places. We had no sense of other people’s property.
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  I don’t know how much it’s changed. I do know one of the houses I used to live in, I walked by it last night. It’s been completely renovated, it looks like it’s been converted back to a single family house. It looks like somebody cares about it and at the time I lived there it was owned by a notorious slum landlord. It was roach infested. It hadn’t had any maintenance in God knows how long, and it was just awful and we were like, “Yay! We got an apartment!” Really? Now looking back I think, “I wouldn’t want my kids to live there.” So, yeah.
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  So how do you think Grinnell College itself has changed since you were a student, since you talked about the town?
Diane Gutenkauf::  I'm like, "Well, yeah, but that’s not necessarily a bad thing. Really, step back and look at that building. How could it function in the way it needs to now? It can’t." It needs to change in order to stay really relevant and stay valuable. So I think academically, Grinnell is the same and that’s what’s important to me. It’s like, the heart of the school, why people come here. I think there’s a stronger, more vocal emphasis on social engagement and community organizing and that’s important to me.
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  It was there, but we were- we were the children of the 70s. We were that slight aftermath of the war and the peace movement and, y'know, the civil rights movement. We were just, just after that so the dust hadn’t settled yet. I think now, the dust has settled and these things have coalesced into something even stronger, and a conscious effort on the part of students to say, “I wanna be involved. I wanna volunteer. I think this is important.” I think that’s a change, but-
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  So, describe something that is no longer-
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  But Darby Gym, first of all, it was a historic structure. It had beautiful lines.It was a classic, big gym. Y’know, big red brick gym. The wooden floor and locker rooms in the basement and a place where, when you went to a dance, you were doing that sort of movie version of high school dance in the gym. So it was sentimental for very many reasons but it was also a really nice-looking building. I mean architecturally, I think it was a nice connection to the other buildings around it, so I hated to see it go for a whole lot of reasons.
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  Did you get to check out our new gym?
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  And- and you have to have great facilities.
Diane Gutenkauf::  But, and y’know, realistically, things get outmoded. You have to update them. I totally get it. But there’s something sentimental about a building like Darby. It’s like our, our class dinner last night was in the Quad dining hall and just going in that Hogwarts-esque space made me think, “This is such a beautiful space.” You have to capture that somehow, in historic preservation we call it adaptive reuse. There’s gotta be a way to be really creative about how you capture a space and reuse it so that you still respect the structure and create a new use for it that makes it relevant.
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  It is - here’s my plug for historic preservation and sustainable living: The greenest building is the one that’s still standing. Tearing it down and building new wastes resources.
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  So, I don’t know how much you know about the students today, but how do you think they compare to your classmates?
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  OK. This is a very broad one, describe student and campus life as you experienced it during your time at Grinnell.
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  My step-son’s school doesn’t do that. Went to visit him and there’s a kid at a desk at the front. “I need to see your ID before you can come into the dorm.” I’m walking with my step-son to bring his stuff into the dorm room. “I have to see your ID.” Seriously?
Diane Gutenkauf::  Y'know, and the reality is, he’s gonna do those things. I just don’t want him sneaking around. I want him to learn from it and act mature, and forcing him to submit to those kinds of parental rules keeps him in a position of teenage that I don’t think he should, Grinnell should- or, Grinnell. College should be a time of transition from that, parent’s home, teenage rules, to "Crap, I’m out in the world. Now I gotta earn a living. How am I gonna do that?" You need to transition, and I think college is the place where you should learn how to transition. You should learn how to manage your money. You should learn how to rent an apartment. You should learn how to pay your bills. You should learn how to be responsible for actions. I didn’t study. I failed a test. Oooh. Y’know, nobody’s gonna save you. “Oh, there, there Sweetie, you can take it tomorrow.” It’s just not- it shouldn’t happen.
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  So I’m curious, would you- how do you feel about sending your own children to Grinnell?
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  Last question, if you were writing a history of Grinnell College what would you include from your years here?
Chelsie Salvatera::  I would include those stories of the people that aren’t here anymore.... Isn’t that funny? I said goodbye to a friend of mine this morning and he was all choked up, and I thought, “We’re going to see each other again.” Y'know, maybe he just got so emotional, but you kinda think- it’s sort of emotional fallout.
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  But, my history of Grinnell would be stories about the people, and that makes me think about the people that just, I don’t get to see anymore.
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  All right. I- hoooh. Let me see if I can try that one again.
Diane Gutenkauf::  If I were writing a history of Grinnell, I would try to capture the stories just like you’re doing now, because it’s through storytelling that we connect the past to the present, because it’s that, that personalizing of the history. You can tell me what year Grinnell was built and then renovated and then what was housed in it. But, that isn’t as important to me as somebody saying, “My Psych class met in there and I was just astonished that I got to do experiments on cats.”
Diane Gutenkauf & Chelsie Salvatera::  Y’know, for me, that’s the most meaningful part of the history of Grinnell, is somebody saying, “I got to do that.” So while Darby is the building I think I’m gonna miss the most, what I miss about Darby is standing this far away from The Police and listening to this music and going, “Oh, I really like this. Who are these guys?” Y'know, because, they opened for another band! The other band was the headliner, and I’m like standing in front, this far away from The Police in a gym! And they’re playing a gym in the middle of nowhere Iowa, and that’s what I want to remember about Darby. And I was- "Wow, that was pretty cool. Dance around here on this wooden floor of this cool old building." So...
Diane Gutenkauf::  Yeah, I think that’s a good- capturing the stories about the place because if I read a history of Grinnell, and liste- I’m gonna listen to these stories told by class- other classes and think, "Wow. What if-" How interesting it was that their experience was like that and mine was like this. That’s what’s meaningful to me.
Chelsie Salvatera & Diane Gutenkauf::  Okay. Is there anything else you’d like to add on there? Any additional…?
