Kathryn Vincent::  Start out with your name, city you're currently living in, and your class year.
Anne Hruska Parsons & Kathryn Vincent::  My name is Anne Hruska Parsons, Class of ’58 and I live in Castine, Maine.
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  Why did you come to Grinnell?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  Were you recruited for a sport or for academics...?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  What’s your first memory of campus- being on campus?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  Was there a professor, student, or staff member who had a particularly strong influence on you?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  Is there a favorite academic experience or class that you had at Grinnell?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  What are some of your best memories of your time at Grinnell College?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  What did your dorm room look like while you were here?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  What kind of clothes did you wear everyday at Grinnell, and were there any special occasions you would dress up for?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  Was there a book that influenced you heavily while you were at Grinnell?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  Was there a class that you remember fondly outside of your History Major?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  What kind of memories or images do you have of the town of Grinnell during your time?
Anne Hruska Parsons & Kathryn Vincent::  And the Monroe Hotel was there... and I remember the big deal was to go downtown and have giant sundaes at some ice cream store. I don’t--
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  How has Grinnell, the town, college, changed since you were a student?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  Describe something that is no longer available on campus that was meaningful to you, whether it’s a building, or a program, or activity you participated in.
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  Describe one of your favorite places on campus- some place you loved to study, or hang out with friends, or anything like that.
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  If you knew then what you know now, what would you have done differently during your time at Grinnell? If anything.
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  And it seems like you met your spouse at Grinnell, correct?
Anne Hruska Parsons & Kathryn Vincent::  We had Student Council Conventions for elections of the Student Governing Boards- I don’t know if that was true- but it was a Student Council Convention, and he was a floor manager, and it was during a political part of the country’s history as well and I think I was very impressed with his political prowess and that sort of got me interested, and...
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  How would you compare the students of today with your classmates?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  You said you were a History Major-- if you were writing a history of Grinnell College, what would you include from your years here?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  Well, that’s it for questions. If you have any memories or statements you want to say for the record?
Kathryn Vincent & Anne Hruska Parsons::  I'll finish- I'll have you say your name and class year one more time.
