Heather Riggs::  Okay, so.. Yeah, just before we start, if you could each go around and say your name, your class year, and where you live now, just for the microphone.
Margo Gray::  Cool. I’m Margo Gray of the class of 2005, and, what else am I saying?
Heather Riggs & Maggie Montanaro::  Your home.
Margo Gray::  I live in Chicago, Illinois.
Jenny Noyce::  My name is Jenny Noyce, the class of 2005 and I live in Oakland, California.
Maggie Montanaro::  I’m Maggie Montanaro, also class of 2005, and I live in Avignon, France.
Heather Riggs::  Wow. So, what are your strongest memories of Grinnell?
Maggie Montanaro::  Harris Parties.
Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro::  Mud sliding in the rain.
Margo Gray & Maggie Montanaro::  I guess I remember people, like, I still am in touch with a lot of people from Grinnell and yeah. So I don’t, I mean I don’t have like these really specific memories of like meeting people, but just mostly, like this whole sort of like pool of memories of times when I was hanging out with people or working with people or, yeah. Building the sort of, you don’t think of it when you’re there, it’s not like, "Ah, I’m building connections to last me!" You’re just like, "I’m hanging out with my friends." But those sort of things tend to last.
Heather Riggs & Maggie Montanaro & Jenny Noyce::  What kind of Harris parties did you have? Like themed...
Heather Riggs & Margo Gray & Maggie Montanaro::  What are your first memories of Grinnell?
Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray::  You telling people they were gonna get raped.
Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro::  So, during New Student Orientation one of the trainings they do is sexual harassment or, and…
Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce::  I said, "Well, don’t come crying to me when you get raped." Which obviously is not a very nice thing to say. You could definitely come crying to me if you got raped.
Margo Gray & Maggie Montanaro::  Y'know, see how that sort of like awk- you know, when you first move in and have roommates, ‘cause we all lived on the same hall our first year. There were two quads of freshman girls that were across the hall from each other, and so we are-
Heather Riggs & Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray::  Why did you decide to come to Grinnell?
Maggie Montanaro::  The other time, the other experience that I had I was with a host who I didn’t like very much, whereas here my host was like, “OK, I’m busy, but, let me know if you need anything.” It was kind of like, "You’re independent. You don’t need me," and I think that really was good for me instead of trying to get to know someone in two days that I obviously wasn’t going to, and didn’t like in most cases. When we went to her boyfriend’s- there was some other school I visited where we went to her boyfriend’s drinking competition with his wrestling buddies. I was like, "This is not..." In a frat house.
Jenny Noyce::  Can you picture yourself?!
Maggie Montanaro::  "I don’t see myself going here."
Margo Gray::  I think it was a, sort of a late decision for me to come to Grinnell, because I didn’t even... I don't know, I visited very late because I was very, sort of like that person who, my sophomore year of high school, was like, “I’m going to order all the brochures from all of the places.” I had my little filing cabinet. Yeah, you know how it is. So I was very sort of like, reading all the material. But I didn’t visit Grinnell, I think until after I got admitted so sort of very late in the process. At that time I had visited a bunch of other schools and, like Maggie had some comparative experiences that were unfavorable.
Margo Gray::  When I came here, I remember I visited... I had asked at other places to visit with professors and had a lot of people tell me, “I don’t really have time for that Prospie. Student. Possible student-person.” So, but I asked to meet with Pip Gordon, who was the head of the Theater department at the time and she was like, “Sure, yeah, come in.” So I came in and I remember she had Tim Curber, who was a senior that year and he was her like, department assistant and he was just hanging out in her office and she was like, “Do you mind if Tim hangs out?” I was like, “Sure.” Seeing their interaction and them very much sort of like bantering back and forth, I was like, “Oh, I want to be friends with my professors. That looks like a lot of fun.” Now I am friends with Pip so, booyah. But I think that was sort of, seeing the relationships between people that I thought were... good.
Jenny Noyce::  And how it’s so different than when you were in high school. You were like, "Oh, my God these adults, they have power," or this or that and to see teachers as mentors instead of someone who’s just controlling your grade. It’s cool.
Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro::  I was the opposite of you. Where, I was like, “College? Yeah, I guess I know have to do that.” Then, I didn’t know anything about the process or what to do and my mom had to... I think I saw the school counselor once. She was like, “Oh, are you applying to schools?” I'm like, "Yeah?” and she was like, “OK, bye.” My mom sort of drug me through-
Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray::  I ended- at first I wanted to go to Carleton. So the first time I visited I was like, "They’re too snobbish. I don't want to go there." The second time I visited I was like, “Oh no, I could totally handle this place.” And then I didn’t get in and then I got into Lawrence and but didn’t want to go there then, because it was too urban.
Heather Riggs & Jenny Noyce::  Were there any professors, students or staff who had a strong influence on your time at Grinnell?
Margo Gray::  Yeah, and I think most of the Theater department professors I had, it was very like, small department. Russian too, actually, they were just very, yeah. They were interested in you as an individual, and I remember going to one of my first oral exams for beginning Russian and I was so nervous ‘cause I was like, “OK, we’re going to be talking about grammar and stuff.” The exam itself was her asking me how my first semester at Grinnell was going and how my other classes were. So we were, of course, talking about this in Russian, but, I mean, she was actually interested even though it was a class of like 20, which was huge.
Margo Gray::  She was actually interested in how my time was going, so I think there were a lot of professors who were really, especially my major departments who were really, and Pip, of course, who I’m still friends with, was very much and continues to be... I will sort of write to her when I’m like, “I don’t know what to do about my career, tell me what to do!” She’ll say, “Well, here’s what you should think about but ultimately you gotta do what you want and you know that." And you’re just, yeah. So, that was always very nice.
Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray::  You passed on good advice to me, too. I think. I’m assuming it was from her as well, but it was like, “Have you thought about what you want to do as opposed to what you should do?”
Jenny Noyce::  I think it’s changing my view of graduate school ‘cause now I’m just like, “I’m gonna do this and get it over with.” It’s not such this huge like, life-structured thing, as I feel like college was. ‘Cause, I have more direct goals and plans for after it. So yeah. Need to help me chill out there, really.
Margo Gray::  Go team.
Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray::  How about you, Maggie?
Heather Riggs & Maggie Montanaro::  How has Grinnell changed since you were students?
Jenny Noyce::  I think one thing, just from being back, from what I’ve heard from staff or people, is having a different president has really made it change in the fact that he seems much more involved in the community and so it has a much more positive feel, I guess, about him or about this idea of here’s this person who’s leading us or who has power.
Heather Riggs & Jenny Noyce::  Yeah, he’s only been around for the past year so it’s been different for us, too. Is there something that was available on campus when you were students but, that is no longer available but is still meaningful to you?
Maggie Montanaro & Jenny Noyce & Margo Gray::  We used to work in the upstairs of Darby.
Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray::  I think it’s just something where I'm like, "Whoa, there’s something that’s hugely different." I think I haven’t gone over to the PEC yet where, or where the PEC used to be. So it’s, I would be there at least twice a week at work, so.
Margo Gray::  I think Plans, I mean I know Plans still exists but even, the sort of switch happened when we were students from it being kind of like, a hosted college thing to something that’s independently sort of student-run now, so that was a big shift. But I mean that’s something I use so much to keep in contact with other alumni, and current students even. It’s the one time that I ever interact with current students is, if something connects randomly on plans. But, that was one sort of change I noticed.
Heather Riggs & Jenny Noyce::  Yeah. I’m curious how Plans was then, compared with how it is now because you’ve probably kept in touch with Plans, if not with the campus.
Maggie Montanaro & Jenny Noyce & Margo Gray::  Well, and when we were here there was also- there were like, a couple scandals, weren’t there? Some kid wrote some threat on Plans? Do you remember this?
Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro & Heather Riggs::  And he was put in prison, and then he got to come back the next year, but he had to wear an ankle bracelet.
Margo Gray & Maggie Montanaro::  It's- because there’s so much, I mean, "social" social networking has changed so much that like, we didn’t really have Facebook.
Margo Gray::  Yeah, but the way the people use Plans is so different from the way that, well, some people, use Facebook and Twitter. And it’s such, such a different community where you feel like you can sort of address someone across time or social circles and be like, “Hey, got here via Montanaro,” y’know, like, “I do have a recommendation about restaurants in downtown Chicago.” Whatever it is, weird stuff like that. "I hear you’re talking about grad school in Moscow," or random stuff like that. I think that that’s been pretty consistent across my years of using plans, at least.
Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro::  I think it’s the one place where... I mean there’s the social norm of still being friendly. It’s not like, "Whoa, who is this person?" but it’s fine to post something up there, being like, "Oh, anybody know this?" And then knowing- Like the implicit trust of knowing the answer you get back will be honest, or...
Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce & Heather Riggs::  There can actually be like, debate about, y’know... There was that sort of body image debate recently, where someone said something about... yeah, just like body image and that was sort of like that’s what the discussion point was that day. It was about body image, or something about how your major influences your earning potential over your lifetime and then that was the point but on Facebook, y'know, that would turn into…
Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce::  St. John’s can still search- stir up… Saul St. John who was the- anyway, nevermind.
Heather Riggs & Jenny Noyce::  What were some of your favorite places on campus?
Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce::  I smoked my first cigarette under that tree.
Jenny Noyce & Heather Riggs & Maggie Montanaro::  Oh, great. They’re emailing all the new kids today about tutorial choices.
Heather Riggs & Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce::  Where did you guys live, when you were here?
Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray::  That was one of my favorite places that year. We did a lot of hanging out over there.
Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro::  It was one night a week, right, like midnight? Funded by the SGA.
Jenny Noyce::  That’s what, I rem- That'll be my most vivid memory I think, for Katie and Colin. Because, Colin came to Chip ‘n Dip night – I was telling Wes this story earlier – and it was this big snowstorm. And he was like, “Oh, I have to go move my car. I need to go move my car,” and y’know he, he did his goodbyes and was like, “All right, gonna go move my car.” He’d like, put on his coat, put on his backpack, and then Katie came in the door and he like, completely changed his tone, and he was going to stay! And then his car got towed.
Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro::  And now they’re married.
Heather Riggs & Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro::  Have a lot of people from your class gotten married to each other, or...? ‘Cause y'know, they say that 40% of Grinnellians...
Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce & Heather Riggs::  I know there are a few people from our- There’s like, a few couples from our class who have gotten married but I don’t know them personally. I’m sure there are more.
Heather Riggs & Jenny Noyce::  How do you feel like your class is different from the classes before you and the classes after you? Do you feel like there was any big changes?
Margo Gray & Maggie Montanaro::  Yeah, and I think our sort of perspective on the community shifted a little bit because when the, y’know there was that whole, like, cluster suicide phenomenon and that was when we were sophomores? The second semester of our sophomore year? And so I- Right? Right.
Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro::  Yeah. So I think the idea was that after that people felt more responsibility. I mean, there’s already a very strong sense of community at Grinnell but I think that after that, when you think about, you know, your responsibility for your fellow students and the idea that it is sort of a matter of life and death whether you can sort of provide support for so- or at least help someone get whatever it is that they need for help. So I think there was more emphasis for all of us in terms of like, “Hey, are you doing OK? Have you talked to this person lately? They seem like maybe they’re having some problems. Has anyone-" y'know, "Is someone on that?” sort of a situation, sorry.
Maggie Montanaro & Jenny Noyce & Heather Riggs & Margo Gray::  We also were freshman when September 11th happened.
Heather Riggs & Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro::  What was that- What was the campus atmosphere like?
Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray::  I was in tutorial-
Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray::  I was in the hallway at...
Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce::  I think there were a lot of people on campus who were from New York. Like there always have- I mean, I think that too.
Maggie Montanaro & Jenny Noyce & Margo Gray::  So those are some depressing things that make our class different. But we’re also just pretty cool.
Heather Riggs & Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray::  What was student and campus life like while you were students?
Maggie Montanaro & Jenny Noyce & Margo Gray & Heather Riggs::  There was always a sort of like, North-South Campus divide. Like hippie vibe on South Campus, jock vibe on, y’know. That’s always kind of the stereotype. I don’t know if it still is, but-
Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce::  Was East Campus finished when you were..?
Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce::  ‘Cause we moved, D wasn’t, Katie and I were supposed to live in D with Patty Cakes! And Patrick Hall was there, for posterity.
Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce::  What else about student.. Just the idea sort of like, of everyone was working really hard and it was definitely like a badge of pride like, how much you were, y'know. You’d be standing around, sitting around in the hallway drinking - or not drinking - and everyone being like, “Man, I have like two hundred pages of reading to do for tomorrow I haven't even started on, and a three page paper plus a test! What d’you got?” It was just sort of, bragging rights, who has, y'know, who has the most work left to do.
Jenny Noyce::  So... but I think like, when you think of college life, and on Grinnell campus too it is the idea tof like, it’s not just study hard, but play hard and that openness of being like, “Oh, we're gonna do this! You wanna go try that with me?” Like, meeting someone else random and being like, "Yeah, you wanna come join us? Cool, totally come do this with us."
Maggie Montanaro::  I also felt like the school, like Grinnell has always been... I don’t know if it’s still this way, ‘cause I felt like there were some changes happening when we were here, but the fact that they trust us to be self-governed, y'know, that they let us have parties where maybe underage people might be drinking, y'know. They give us a lot of freedom. People can smoke. Y'know, there’s not this whole policing thing. There’s no RAs, that sort of thing. I think that was really important to me when I came here, and I think that was definitely a big positive to student life at that time.
Jenny Noyce & Margo Gray & Maggie Montanaro::  I think it was positive to student life but in retrospect, I look back and I still wish we would have had more adult guidance.
Jenny Noyce & Margo Gray::  And not necessarily like, I wish that there had been something where- or maybe it’s just me regretting that I feel like I didn’t take advantage of campus support enough. Of like, what it meant to be on a college campus as opposed to just like, "Oh, you’re on your own. This is what college is." But really understanding how to take advantage of academic advising or student affairs or the career counseling center and things like that. I think that would’ve helped some, direct us and-
Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce::  I also think, and maybe this is just my learning more about the community as I spent more time in the town of Grinnell, but connecting. I always found that connections with the community were valuable and sort of enriching. Like, going to Community Meal. Love Community Meal. Or, hanging out, like –
Heather Riggs & Jenny Noyce & Margo Gray::  What memories do you associate with the town of Grinnell, besides Community Meal?
Heather Riggs & Jenny Noyce & Margo Gray::  What is that?
Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce::  Yeah, they do this in Ohio, too, by the way.
Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray & Heather Riggs::  Yeah, and so we- our friend Al had an apartment, his senior year, literally on the loop, and so I can remember he had like, a balcony up there and we’d be like "Oh! That car drove by at least two times already."
Margo Gray & Maggie Montanaro & Heather Riggs & Jenny Noyce::  Yeah. Oh..
Heather Riggs & Maggie Montanaro & Jenny Noyce & Margo Gray::  There's a Voodoo Lounge there.
Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce & Heather Riggs::  Weren't there plays in the park?
Heather Riggs & Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce::  Yeah, I mean I don’t have any more questions. Do you guys have anything to add?
Jenny Noyce & Maggie Montanaro::  Grinnell advice. What advice would I give people?
Jenny Noyce::  Take the classes you wouldn’t have taken in high school, I feel like. I feel like, the way I structured my academics, at least for freshman year was like, "Oh, well, this is the way they had us do it in high school so I guess I’ll just take this class and this class and this class." And they were from like every category, but that didn’t really broaden my horizons.
Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce::  I think just the, as you were saying, taking advantage of the- because y’know, we’re all so busy in college. It was like, when would I have taken two more ExCo classes anyway? You know? Like, I- That’s nice to think about but I don’t think I actually could’ve done it, but even just taking advantage like, post Grinnell, of all the connections that you build because I think that we don’t quite like, we don’t know how good we’ve got it, but-
Margo Gray::  Yeah, and just the idea that the Grinnell community is, I mean it’s not unique in all the world. There are close communities, but the fact that Grinnellians are genuinely interested in changing the world for the better and in sort of like, helping each other. So many people- I live in Chicago right now which is a huge concentration of Grinnellians, and other people who I know, they’re all like, “Oh are you guys talking about Plans again?” Or, they’ll say things like, “Ugh, another Grinnellian who's helping you with something? Ah! Why are there so many of you?” It's like, there aren’t so many of us. We just find each other and are willing to help each other. Like, if you call up a Grinnellian,  you’re like, “Oh by the way, do you know anything about this?” and they’re always willing-
Jenny Noyce & Margo Gray::  Lucinda’s husband decided he wanted to make some version of some Plans things for people…
Maggie Montanaro & Margo Gray & Jenny Noyce & Heather Riggs::  I gave some real advice, I don’t know what you guys are talking about.
