William Wilcoxen::  You gettin' anything yet?
Jarren Santos & William Wilcoxen::  Keep on talking.
Jarren Santos & William Wilcoxen::  So let's go ahead and start.
William Wilcoxen::  So, that was in Chicago. I grew up in the south side of Chicago, and.. I think there was something strangely exotic about going to school in a rural area to me. You know, the country was- My grandparents lived in... in- on farms, and so I had a little bit of experience with it, but I was purely a city kid myself. And so, to go to school out in the middle of Iowa was... It just appealed to me on some level.
William Wilcoxen & Jarren Santos::  One of the things I remember is that... I- I liked that I could walk around barefoot, you know? People were accepting of that, especially I think in the, maybe even more so, in the early 80s than today, and I would go, like, an entire day- I would even, we weren't supposed to, but I would even like, go to class barefoot, and go into the dining halls barefoot, which we weren't suposed to do, but nobody ever made me turn around, so.. I would go sometimes 2, 3 days and I felt a little bit like Tom Sawyer, I think.
Jarren Santos & William Wilcoxen::  So how do you feel that transition was like, from.. going from a city kid to the rural life.
Jarren Santos & William Wilcoxen::  So, imagine yourself walking on the first day-
William Wilcoxen::  But, at the beginning of the school year, this often happens, they were sort of over-booked. They had too many students, and so there actually were four of us in this triple when I got there. And there were two, kind of, inner rooms, and, you know, other guys had those already, so I was out in sort of the main, you know, living room area of this triple, with another guy in a bunk bed. So, it was pretty close quarters. And I remember the guys, yeah. It was.. Andy Reeves, was one of them, Harley Leicher was another, and Bob Joel. Bob Joel was the one who- he was not a freshman; he was a transfer student, and, as soon as another room opened up, he moved out and got his own room.
William Wilcoxen::  But, it was- I think it was good for me to have, you know, a few roommates, rather than just one, because it just got me to know more people, and... And there were a couple of..... 2 or 3 people I knew from my high school who wound up going to Grinnell, also, and when you're brand new and you don't know anybody, you know, you kinda gravitate toward who you do know, and so I did hang out with those guys quite a bit, and it turned out to be.... We became very good friends, much more so than we were in high school. So, it was nice. I liked that.
Jarren Santos & William Wilcoxen::  Do you still talk to your first-year roommates? Have you... like, how is that- maintaining that relationship?
William Wilcoxen & Jarren Santos::  What else was I....? I had a thought there for a minute and then I lost it, so... I don't know.
William Wilcoxen::  Well, I would say that the socializing was my favorite part of college. I mean, I liked the school work. That was good, but I think I really kind of blossomed just in terms of getting to know people. I- I was more reticent in high school, and I think that... I don't know if it was just sort of being in a smaller community, or... being around so many like-minded people. I mean, you know, I was aware of it even at the time, and I've thought about it since, that, you know, it's really special to have... a group of people who are, you know, all together and- What am I trying to say? ...You know, people who are about the same age, and are- have a lot of the same values and interests, and they're all congregated in one place for a limited amount of time without anything else to do other than just study and get to know one another. 
William Wilcoxen::  And that's pretty amazing to me, you know, when I look back on it now, because, you know, in the adult world, we're all moving in such different directions, and we're all so busy with so many different things, that I've often thought about what a special time of life that was. But.... in terms of, you know, favorite memories, yeah, socializing generally, but the Pub was a- was a real focal point for a lot of us, I think, and I liked, you know, just being able to go down there and run into whoever else was there, and, you know, know that I would have friends there, you know? That was.. that was great. So, I liked- liked goin' to the Pub.
William Wilcoxen & Jarren Santos::  Yeah, I- I-
William Wilcoxen & Jarren Santos::  Um...
William Wilcoxen::  And.... I was an American Studies major, and my senior seminar was on.. a phenomenon called "Communitas", which is- It's... the way- it's the sense of community that builds among people who are sort of randomly thrown together. If you get stuck in an elevator with people, and, you know, you pass the time with them, and figure a way to break out, that would be an example of this phenomenon that we were studying, and everybody would do their senior paper on, you know, you'd find something along those lines, and I chose to do mine on the Maid-Rite in town, and...
William Wilcoxen::  So, it was- it was good for me because I- I was, you know, just getting interested, and, you know, I'm about to leave college and this is my last semester, so I'm more interested in how people live.. you know, after college, and so it was good for me, I think, to be a townie for a while there instead of just, you know, livin' on campus again. And I would go to the Maid-Rite almost every morning, and, you know, I was observing- I needed to eat breakfast anyway, but I was observing, you know, kind of the- how the regulars interacted with one another, and with the staff, and that was what I did my paper on, but it was....
William Wilcoxen::  I- I really enjoyed that- that sense of community around that place, too. That was a.. that was a key place for me, and I- I was living it in the day, and then I would, you know, analyze it and write about it. I remember I interviewed a couple of... professors. I interviewed Joe Wall, who used to go to the Maid-Rite, and also, I wanted to contrast it with a different coffee shop, you know? And so he- he helped me make that contrast because I didn't go to the second one very much, but he did, so..
William Wilcoxen::  I really enjoyed... I enjoyed that. It- it- I just felt like it helped prepare me for what I was really gonna do. And that's another irony of this, is.... I majored in American Studies, and, when you do that, you don't have any idea- you're not preparing yourself for a particular career, but as with a liberal arts education generally, I think you're preparing yourself for whatever comes next, and for- in my case, it turned out I went into journalism, and... I- I actually thought that it was- I found that it was a great preparation, because it got me in the habit of observing people, and you know, asking them questions, and telling stories, which was really all that journalists do. So... yeah, it was- it actually turned out to be very good preparation for my professional life, which I did not expect at all.
Jarren Santos & William Wilcoxen::  What's your occupation now? Journalist?
Jarren Santos & William Wilcoxen::  What was- oh. So.... what was I gonna say?
William Wilcoxen::  He was a... so I was a freshman living with three other guys in that room, and this guy was a... had a single across the hall, and... We- I think- He's told me that he first noticed me- there was a television in the lounge, and... the baseball play-offs were on, and.. he was a Yankee fan, and the Yankees were in the play-offs, and I came down to watch the play-offs too, and I was- He noticed that I was keeping score... of a baseball game that I was watching on television, and he thought that was really cool. So, we first bonded, I think, over baseball, and then we became, you know, good friends.
William Wilcoxen & Jarren Santos::  And he had a radio show on KDIC... and I used to listen to it an then call him up and then I would call him up and request songs, and I got more interested in radio, and so the next semester I did my own show- They had just gone to a 24-hour format, and they were havin' trouble finding people to do the overnight...
William Wilcoxen::  And then.... when I got out of Grinnell, when I grad- He was a.. year and a half ahead of me in school. I wasn't sure what I was gonna do when I finished Grinnell, but... he was working at Minnesota Public Radio, and at- First I went back home to Chicago for... maybe nine months, and was working in a library, but thinkin' about what to do next, and he wrote to me and said, "You know, you could at least get an internship if you came up here to Minnesota."
William Wilcoxen & Jarren Santos::  So I did that, and I- and I moved into a house where he was livin' with a couple other guys... and, you know, after interning for a while at MPR, that led to a job in a- at one of their stations near St. Cloud, Minnesota. Worked there for six years, went back down to the twin cities for 20-some years, and I'm still in that field- I'm no longer with MPR, but it's interesting to me that I can look back at, you know, both my profession and where I chose to live, and they were influenced by this classmate of mine who lived across the hall. Yeah.
William Wilcoxen::  And it's funny because I st- we both still live in the twin cities, and, you know, I see him quite a bit, you know. He's still- as I say, he's probably my closest friend, so... Yeah, it's great that the people you meet at Grinnell are the people you- who do influence you and who stay in your life in many cases. I think back to high school, and I'm not really in touch with any of my high school friends, but college is.... is.... a very different thing for me.
Jarren Santos & William Wilcoxen::  What about dating? What about the meeting of masses?
Jarren Santos & William Wilcoxen::  So, let's go ahead and shift a little bit.
Jarren Santos & William Wilcoxen::  What about events in general?
William Wilcoxen & Jarren Santos::  No, I- I remember, you know, when I've come back for other reunion- or, soon after I left they were trying to get rid of Relays because it was, y- There were some ways in which it was- people would get a little too outta control, but...
William Wilcoxen & Jarren Santos::  But then when the day actually arrived, and... You know, and this buddy of mine who lived across the hall, you know, took me out and said, "You gotta check this out." And- yeah, and we even were in the Titular Head Contest, and we were like, co-winners. I think there was a tie, so we rode on the fire engine in the parade.
Jarren Santos & William Wilcoxen::  So, let's wrap up this interview with one last question.
William Wilcoxen & Jarren Santos::  I knew some people who were very... conscientious about their classwork and would kind of barricade themselves in the library, and.... They got good grades, but I think they missed an important part of their education, so- And, what I relish the most about my Grinnell years, is how I think it helped me develop socially, and it helped me appreciate different kinds of people. And so, I think the.... the getting-to-know-your-classmates part of it was the most valuable to me. That's not to say the academics weren't important, but the.... the best part of it for me was getting to know the people around me..
