Bruce Nissen::  Dave, you start.
David Linblom & Bruce Nissen::  Okay. My name is David Lindblom. I currently live in El Rancho, New Mexico, which is near Santa Fe, and I am a member of the Grinnell class of 1970.
Bruce Nissen::  I had already said this in a panel today. I came to Grinnell because I knew Grinnell was full of activists and radical activists and kind of the cultural youth revolution kinds of changes and stuff like that, too. So, that’s why I came, that’s what I wanted, that’s what I got and it was, it fulfilled what I was hoping for and what I was looking for, so... My first memory was being put into East Norris Hall, which was one of the crummiest dorms to be stuck in, but I came a little late because I was a transfer student. I came late, even after the orientation period, so it wasn’t a great first memory but the rest of the memories are pretty darn good. What about you, Dave?
David Linblom::  Well, I came here, I wasn’t seeking anything in particular like Bruce was, although I had, at that moment, definitely dissident and even maybe a little bit radical ideas about things but I was just going to college to become, y’know... a scientist, I think, was what I wanted to do, and make money and drive a Corvette. I was very- probably influenced by a culture of- I know we didn’t have fraternities and I was not looking for a fraternity, but I think there was a little bit of that in the culture that I was expecting, or was maybe even looking for, but, of course, that just evaporated immediately.
David Linblom::  My first significant memory, I think was, when I was in high school, the adults would always bring musical groups to the high school that were just, really for adults, not for kids. So I was asking somebody, “Who’s gonna play at homecoming?” and they said, “The Jefferson Airplane.” So I’d never heard of them and I just assumed that that was just one of these stupid, adult trombone bands or something from Des Moines and then I walked into Darby Gymnasium and there was Gracie Slick, singing “White Rabbit,” or s- and this light show on the walls, and, my God, it just... That’s my first interesting memory.
Bruce Nissen::  I’ll talk about the professor. There was a professor, a Jack Worley, John Worley, we knew as Jack Worley, who was a Philosophy professor. As soon as I took a class with him I knew I wanted to major in Philosophy; I took everything I could from Jack Worley. He still is, I just venerate him to this day and think he’s one of the most remarkable human beings I ever met and certainly, probably the best teacher I’ve ever seen in my life. He could explain anything to anybody, and especially if he knew kind of what your interests were, he could relate anybody. I was just telling Dave examples of relating Plato and Aristotle and other early philosophers, to my radical political interests in the 1960s. And he could show me how these things fit into the things I was most interested in. He was just an unbelievable teacher and I still pay homage to him. He’s amazing. So, Jack Worley was an incredible influence in my life.
David Linblom & Bruce Nissen::  There was a professor here that did have a pretty big impact on me, but in a negative way. There was a professor here, John Crossett, and Bruce actually told me something the other day that has sort of softened my assessment, perhaps, but I just thought it was nearly criminal that the College allowed this professor to teach here. I thought he was such a... He was such a- an intellectual bully and was just, was teaching us not how to think, like this other professor, but just really... It was almost terroristic the way he, intellectually, he sort of…
David Linblom::  And he was just so forceful with this, and... And it- there was a student also, I won’t name him, but I mean, I thought he was extremely entertaining and I loved to be around him but he was so deeply cynical and cynicism is very humorous, but it’s absolutely useless and ultimately poisonous and so, that takes you nowhere but I- and, well I guess it opens up. It’s so critical that it sort of breaks things right away and then you can maybe see something else, but it was... I was sort of oppressed by this other, this cynical student as well. I couldn’t, I was sort of suffocated by this.
Bruce Nissen::  I wanted to add to the negative professors. The other classics professor, aside from Crossett was H. G. Apostle, Hippocrates G. Apostle, who I think was a much bigger bully and a professional kind of terroristic person on the faculty. I thought he was awful, and I had very little respect for the man even though he was a very, very learned man because he was not helping students open their mind to grow. He had his dogmas and his right-wing dogmas, and I think he was a disaster, too. So, talk about negative ones. I had my crossed swords with Crossett and stuff too, but I thought Apostle was even worse. But, Jack Worley was fantastic.
Bruce Nissen & David Linblom::  Do you want to jump in on best memories, Dave, or you want me to take first shot at that?
Bruce Nissen::  Well, my best memories all had to do with banding together with a number of other radical political students and strongly, forcefully putting our point of view forward on things and taking all sorts of actions that were trying to better the world as we saw it. So, fight against the war, stop the war in Vietnam, you know, put out an underground newspaper, those kinds of activities. That kind of made seamless my social life and my political life, and I was very very political, kind of at that time.
Bruce Nissen::  And it was also the, on top of that at that time was a complete opening up of youth culture and making really a cultural revolution in terms of the mores and ways of understanding of the way people should relate to each other and all the rest. So, it was an opening up. It was a sexual revolution at that time. There was the.. kind of revolutionary change in the sense of treating students like they were in junior high or something else too, and policing the women and keeping the women in the dorms, and all that type. We challenged all of that forcefully and strongly.
Bruce Nissen::  That whole... it was all one big scene, was what, to me, I really really enjoyed about Grinnell. Grinnell allowed some of that. I think sometimes they wanted to throttle me and people like me, but for the most part they were tolerant and open enough to let us radicals do our thing and to learn from our experiences at Grinnell. That... yeah, that was the good times to me, a lot of it.
David Linblom::  I have- my best memory is really sort of a delayed memory, and that is when the students from our class created the Peace Grove. That was really something to think about, because when I was here, it wasn’t clear to me that very many people were sort of, fellow dissidents or also sort of seeing that there’s something really wrong with the war and the way society’s organized. They were just kind of in a dull way, just sort of going... going along with everything.
David Linblom::  And then- then, I guess maybe it was fifteen years after we graduated, I would say 90% of our class came back or participated in one way or another in creating this Peace Grove. So, it just was... just was such a revelation to me about the depth of, well, you, it’s what we wanted to happen, was to have an influence on larger numbers of people and we weren’t sure that that happened and then all of a sudden, it’s just all there.
Bruce Nissen & David Linblom::  Question four’s about dorm room. I don’t have anything- interesting things to say about my dorm room or dorm rooms. That was it. Otherwi- if you do, Dave, otherwise I…
Tamara Grbusic & Bruce Nissen::  You don’t have to answer all the questions.
Bruce Nissen & David Linblom::  Clothes we wear and stuff. I mean, I- we just wore…
David Linblom & Bruce Nissen::  It was a uniform, and if you went to Des Moines and you saw people, you could tell immediately by what- the way people wore their clothes if they were in the same tribe that.. that we were in, and you could- you could connect with them. That’s how it was.
Bruce Nissen::  And I didn’t have hardly any money so the way I got around the country, generally speaking, was by hitchhiking and the kindness of strangers, but they weren’t strangers because they were part of my tribe; they were part of the counterculture, the youth culture who put me up. It's.. I mean, there’s just so many of them and it’s hard to prov- explain them all, and things. And... it worked out; I didn’t have hardly any negative experiences, y'know, out of that experience.
Bruce Nissen & Tamara Grbusic::  The only- in New York City the only time I had any sort of basically negative experiences was that some of the people who were so kind and who would put me up, and do this and that, yeah, they're basically- they were after my body. They were men who were after my body because that’s... I guess I made the mistake, I didn’t know this, but I made the mistake of wearing white sneakers while I hitchhiked into New York and white sneakers in New York at that time meant you were gay and maybe a hustler looking for sex with other men, and I was attracting men. And I was a young, nubile young hippie-
David Linblom & Bruce Nissen::  That pro- I think that went away with Altamont.
Bruce Nissen::  It was- We even had some Grinnell guys who drove down to Interstate 80 almost every night just to see if anybody had gotten stranded hitchhiking across the country, gotten stranded at the local gas station. Y'know, someone would come, take ‘em back, let ‘em sleep in their sleeping bags on the floor in the house that they had rented and things of that sort. So we- It was just a lot of...
Bruce Nissen::  Y'know, I owned a car. We called it the digger car. It was the free car; anybody could, if they put enough gas in the car, they could drive it anywhere and go anywhere. We were pushing very much for a society free from commercial restraints and money-grubbing and things of that sort, so the theory kind of was everything should be for free and it would be free if we could create a cooperative form of society and things. And... so, people used, y’know, my car, until eventually some townspeople... I had fluorescent flowers all over my car so it was really obvious it was a hippie car and it was... And, apparently some townsperson had come and poured sugar into my gas tank and it destroyed my car, so we lost that one because of hostility from people in the- So there was some opposition to us obviously from the mainstream culture at that time.
David Linblom & Bruce Nissen::  Oh, I- My best memory; I remember what it is. There was the radicals on campus. One of the groups was SDS, and we challenged ROTC to a football game. And for that occasion, half of the football team joined SDS and it was the biggest, toughest guys on the football team, you know, angry and wanting to hurt somebody, and we played the Air Force and we- It was brutal. It was... I just felt bad for our Air Force guys and it was- but it was interesting because again, it’s like, the football team, as far as we knew, they could care less about anything radical.
David Linblom::  That’s the big lesson I- to me, was always, I guess, underestimating what people were thinking, or not being sensitive to it and... but always just being so blown away when it manifested itself.
Bruce Nissen::  I want to address that idea, Dave. I think the reason was because the type of movement we created was not an alienating one, I don’t think. Most of what we did did not alienate other students. Very little of what we did on this campus alienated the other students. It was very in line with the changing ethos of the youth culture, kind of, of the time. It was- maybe it was very radical ideas about American society. America was an imperialistic country, and America was a militaristic and a racist and a sexist society that we were fighting against and things. But, we did it... we were reasonable arou- we seem- I think we basically came across as reasonable radicals- as radicals, and people who would, you know, you could have discussion with, and we were just dogmatically gonna- most of us. Most of us- there were a few dogmatists in the crew, which, you mentioned one the other day, David. But for the most part I think that was the reason. So therefore, because of that, we had a much greater influence than I think you realized. I didn’t think I felt that isolated during my Grinnell years.
Bruce Nissen::  I was thinking we were having an impact on most of the students and we did. Not as much as we wanted to; we didn’t turn ‘em all into radicals but we edged ‘em, an awful lot of them, in that direction and made ‘em much more critical and much more, I think- helped... y’know. Most people came out of Grinnell - at least out of that cohort, and I don’t know about you guys, this day, but I don't think it’s changed much - we weren’t just going out to amass the maximum amount of money for ourselves as possible. We wanted more meaningful lives than that, and most Grinnell people went out, and are interesting people to me, you know.
Bruce Nissen::  A banker, you’re not interesting to me. A hedge fund manager, you’re not interesting to me. A corporate lawyer, you’re probably not very interesting to me. You might be, but probably not. But the people- Grinnellians, some of them went off in those directions but most Grinnellians, who could go into those things and could make a ton of money and get extremely rich if they chose to, that’s not their number 1 goal in life. We all want to make enough money to live comfortably and to do well but it’s not the capitalistic goal of maximize your own wealth to the end of the earth until you can become as rich as possible. We kept that very much alive with what we did and what we were about, I think.
Bruce Nissen::  Book. I think the most influential book to me, that- and I will mention, perhaps too, that really hit me hard and helped to turn me more radical in my thinking, one was Herbert Marcuse’s One-Dimensional Man and the other was Baran and Sweezy’s book Monopoly Capital. And after reading that book, Monopoly Capital, I had decided that something was really rotten with the whole system, and we really needed to make some real changes on that front. But, there were a number of them, but those two come to my mind.
David Linblom::  I remember really taking an interest in Milton’s “Paradise Lost” because it was about Satan, and it was Satan as a... kind of a heroic figure and that kind of... I don’t know. I just, it just, it was sort of very provocative to think of... sort of an insurrection by the Devil, and it’s just a interesting… I wasn’t, I was not a religious person but it was kind of interesting that.. to present Lucifer as this sort of heroic character.
David Linblom::  And... at that time, the Rolling Stones came out with a song: “Sympathy for the Devil,” and I don’t know, I was just trying to... I guess it was- sort of fit somehow in... I mean, we were rebelling against the whole set up of life and from all- up to the highest authority, whoever that might be. So, it had this... stories like that had a special resonance. And then another book that I read, or looked at, was a picture book, photographs of... I must’ve looked through it a hundred times at the library. It was photos by a French photographer, Henri Cartier-Bresson- very famous black and white photojournalist.
Bruce Nissen & Tamara Grbusic::  My memories of the town of Grinnell.. We didn’t- it was pretty much a cocoon here on the campus, and I didn’t have that much interaction with the town of Grinnell, other than, the one nice thing I remember and I think Dave was in on these things was, at two or three in the morning, going down and getting fresh, hot doughnuts at the local bakery.
Bruce Nissen::  They weren’t at all and we worried a little about, because they were willing to talk to us. They were farmers, you know. Would their farm neighbors think that they were, you know, hanging out with and visiting with a bunch of commies, which is the way a lot of the local people thought of us, as communists or something like that. And the.., they said, “Oh, no, no, don’t worry about them. We’re happy to have you out here,” and things of that sort. They were very great, nice people.
Bruce Nissen & David Linblom::  Do you have any town memories, David, or no?
David Linblom & Bruce Nissen::  And, we were deliberately trying to freak people out.
Bruce Nissen & David Linblom & Tamara Grbusic::  I’m thinking of maybe skipping how Grinnell’s changed. If you wanna say something?
Bruce Nissen::  And then the private space would’ve been Conference Hall, because, Conference Hall was a gathering point where a lot of the radicals sort of gathered, and my girlfriend at the time, of ’69, ’70, was- lived in Conference Hall and was the President of Conference Hall. And, an awful lot of wonderful things, including putting on our underground newspaper and other kinds of things like that happened over in Conference Hall. Including- and that was where the plot was hatched for the nude day against Playboy and all these other kind of interesting things that also happened. So, that was more of a private gathering space where things- I had great memories in, then the public place would be Forum.
David Linblom::  Yeah, the Forum is, that’s a problem. Is it tha- I get it, that you have to have ADA access, but I don’t know. It seems like sometimes you can make an exception because, I mean it’s like, I’m just thinking, the wealth and effort that went into making that building, and it’s a beautiful result, and... I don’t know. I don’t really s- It doesn’t make a lot of sense to me to tear it down. You wouldn’t tear down the Coliseum in Rome. I mean, it’s an important architectural thing. So, I don’t know. It’s, that’s a really... I surely remember that place.
David Linblom & Bruce Nissen::  I can’t answer ten. I don’t think I have a favorite academic experience... because of the- what I was really interested in was, they weren’t teaching it here, and that was filmmaking. So, I was sort of doing that, or doing photography on my own, so it was separate from the academic experience, and I was not really a very good student, but it’s because there was these other pressing things that needed to be attended to. So, I wish, perhaps, I had been a better student, but I think I survived; turned out okay.
David Linblom & Bruce Nissen::  Well, I applied to go to NYU to go to the film school and I was accepted and that was like, had I, in high school if I had applied to Harvard and got accepted, I would- that’s how I felt on that day. I’m gonna transfer out of Grinnell. I’m gonna go to film school. So, I applied and I got accepted. It was like, I was astonished, but then all of a sudden there’s no financial aid, there’s no scholarship, so I’m not going anywhere. And I- In a way, I think I kinda didn’t want to go. I was pretty happy here, in a way. And I just needed the validation that if I really wanted to, I could go to that film school. But I did end up teaching there, years later, so I thought that was a... an ironic turn.
