Erica Fredrikson::  My name is Erica Fredrikson, I live in King’s Mountain, California, and I am class of 2001.
Chelsie Salvatera::  OK. Thanks for coming, Erica. First question: why did you come to Grinnell College and what is your first memory of the campus?
Erica Fredrikson & Chelsie Salvatera::  I came to Grinnell because I grew up in California, and I wanted to go some place out of state. I didn’t want to go to an Ivy League school, and the Midwest seemed like a vast, wild unknown to someone from the coast, because everyone just flies right over- "What?" Yeah, so my friends were sort of suspicious and didn’t really know where Iowa was and so it seemed very daring at the time. But it was like a fun liberal school with people from everywhere, so I liked that.
Erica Fredrikson::  I actually attended the summer- Grinnell Summer Institute which is a program for high school students, and I was a junior. And, the first thing that comes to mind is not actually the College but flying into- it was my first plane flight alone and looking out the window and seeing land that went on forever. Because I’m from the Bay area so there's bay, ocean, San Francisco, every- there’s mountains, there’s boundaries everywhere and I felt like you could walk forever and never hit water. Oh, my God. So it was really daunting actually, and really flat.
Chelsie Salvatera::  Yeah, I felt the same my first year here. Was there a professor, student or staff member who had a particularly strong influence on your life?
Erica Fredrikson::  I really liked Kesho Scott. She was my American Studies senior seminar. She’s just super kooky and vivacious and you never knew what to expect from her and she could really tell when you were BSing. I mean she wasn’t- I don’t feel like she was super strict but she was, yeah, kind of on the ball with that. My senior year I worked in the Office of Special Services, and my boss there, who I worked with, was named Carlas Rendren. At that point I was so intensely involved in academia that to have someone who was- just be really nice to me three afternoons a week or however many hours I worked and say, “OK, today you’re gonna file these papers,” and just give me simple tasks and ask me how I was doing, it was- she was a really calming, nice, chatty person. So that was a nice, serene... yeah, time for me.
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  What was your major?
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  What are your best memories of your time at Grinnell College.
Erica Fredrikson::  That’s really what I thought of when I heard about this oral history project. I thought, “Oh, someone should give them a record of Pirate House,” because we used to stand in line at Cowles as little baby-faced freshman waiting for- to go into dinner, and we were always thinking of band names, just randomly, and then we were learning more about how Grinnell was run and learning about student off-campus houses that were owned by the College and how they could have themes and someone, I think Justin Rose, said, “Oh, we should have a Pirate House,” and it became this joke. Like, “Yeah, when we’re seniors we’re all going to live together in Pirate House,” and then we actually made it happen and I was the House Coordinator and it was just amazing to have fourteen people all in this house.
Erica Fredrikson & Chelsie Salvatera::  We had a big Pirate Flag that was outside the house and then there was a group of our friends who lived in Main who would, who like stole the flag and they were like the renegade Peter Pan kind of- It became this elaborate sort of prank wars.
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  I'm talking about that now. Okay, so talking about- what did your dorm room look like? Maybe you can talk about what Pirate House looked like?
Erica Fredrikson & Chelsie Salvatera::  My freshman year I was so excit- ‘cause I’m from California, right? You- Are you from the West coast?
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  You lived in Pirate House from your second to your fourth year?
Erica Fredrikson & Chelsie Salvatera::  We ended up in the Nunnery on North Campus. My- Smith Annex - that’s what we called it - was the Nunnery and I was so angry, and it ended up being ridiculously fun. It was just all girls and we would have parties in our little hallway all the time and we had this group collage going on and this giant quote board and cartoons everywhere and it was fabulous, but yeah.
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  Okay. So what kind of clothes did you wear everyday as a Grinnell student or on special occasions?
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  Waltz. You put dresses on.
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  Nice. Okay. What book influenced you most in college, if you can recall one? Not many have recalled one.
Erica Fredrikson::  The most memorable, probably, is... I said American St- I was an American Studies major, so, there’s a famous author named Horatio Alger who wrote books about basically like, "American Dream. You can pull yourself up by your bootstraps," mostly set I think in the early 1900s? And we read a book called "Spotted Dick Struggling Upwards," which, y’know, being 18, 19 year olds we were like, "Ah! It's hysterical!" And it was about like, a poor guy named Richard, and he was struggling upwards in life, but yeah. That was memorable.
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  So what memories or images do you have of the town of Grinnell?
Erica Fredrikson::  I remember, I think it was my freshman year, waking up early in March or February and there had just been a blizzard and I was like, "Tromp tromp tromp through the snow," and I got there and Church was just closed and I was like, “Wow, they canceled church? Oh it’s a blizzard. Everyone ha-” I’m just so used to the walking life, never had a car. But that was- and then seeing people like, skiing down Main Street and- Yeah, so that Church and just walking the downtown area. McNally's and the funky old used clothing stores. I loved Cunningham’s which is no longer in existence.
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  How has Grinnell changed since you were a student?
Erica Fredrikson::  They, it was in the works but... Yeah, and, I don’t know. I was debating with other members of my class at lunch today about, y'know, like, "What’s the attitude of Grinnell?"and like, "Oh,all the students are not liberal enough," but I remember all of the alums when we- when I was a student saying the same thing about us. Like, "You guys, we're-" "Where’s the fighting spirit? Rebel!" So, I sort of feel like... well ,I mean I sincerely hope that the sort of passionate, eager drive that embodies sort of like Grinnell attitude is still present. So.
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  Describe something that is no longer available on campus but that was meaningful to you. Buildings, activities, programs.
Erica Fredrikson & Chelsie Salvatera::  But, I also haven’t seen any squirrels and I saw a lot of rabbits yesterday and then perhaps some of my more drunken friends were saying, "We think that the rabbits ate all the squirrels." I don't know. There are still squirrels on campus, right?
Chelsie Salvatera::  Describe your favorite academic experience or class at Grinnell College.
Erica Fredrikson::  I think taking a Senior History Seminar on the Equal Rights Amendment was- that was with Professor Doolittle. That was probably my most… It was a rea- engaging class. It was a very small seminar and interesting subject. We did original research. I wrote like, a sixty page paper and it was one of the very few times – so much of what we do, like you just spent hours, and "What did I accomplish?" I read hundreds of pages, yay. Or I slaved over this tiny sheet of paper, but it just felt like I had completed something substantial. That was nice to- I mean we didn't, y’know, we don't have thesis, but it was nice to feel like I’d done that and we would- y'know, we got really into it and would bring food to class and it was very collaborative, sort of homey class that people really got along well.
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  Describe your favorite place on campus.
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  If you knew then what you know now, what would you have done differently during your time at Grinnell College?
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  So you stressed out about social life and academics?
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  If you met- Did you meet your spouse or partner here?
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  Describe student and campus life as you experienced it during your time at Grinnell. Kind of a broad question..
Erica Fredrikson & Chelsie Salvatera::  I would get- I would- like, someone would say, “Oh, it’s minus two outside;” I would put on my clothes and run outside just so I could like, “I’ve been outside in negative two weather! So cold!”
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  Last question: if you were writing a history of Grinnell College what would you include from your years here?
Erica Fredrikson::  Oh! I was here when Bush got elected the first time, and that was so tragic. But Gore took the state so this was my big- I wanted to vote for Nader and.... Y’know, I'm from California. We... my vote counts way more in Iowa than in California ‘cause there’s so much more people, there’s the Caucus. So being part of that, y'know, going down to the gym at the public school and being part of the Caucus grouping and talking and discussions and revoting and voting again so, was pretty amazing and then students sitting up all night long because they called the vote for Gore and then Bush and then we went to bed at three in the morning after... There was about thirty people sitting on floor of our living room watching. We woke up and Bush won. It was a sad day. So I think I did end up voting for Nader, but he, that was- Gore won Iowa so it was, I feel like I didn’t help Bush win by taking votes away from Gore. Yeah, that was intense, and it doesn’t really have to do with the history of Grinnell but it was certainly a topic on campus.
Chelsie Salvatera & Erica Fredrikson::  Is there any other additional comments you’d like to give?
