Janice Binder::  My name is Janice Binder. I live in Mt. Vernon, Iowa and my class year is ’86 but well, I graduated in ’85 but I started with the class of ’86.
Chelsie Salvatera::  Okay. Cool. So the first question, Janice, is why did you come to Grinnell College and what is your first memory of the campus?
Janice Binder & Chelsie Salvatera::  Okay. It’s kind of a long story. I wen-
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  Very good memory. Was there a professor, student or staff member who had a particularly strong influence on your life?
Janice Binder & Chelsie Salvatera::  He told me, even though I was becoming, like, a Buddhist or a Pagan or whatever it was that week, that- y’know, not to forget my Jewish roots and I actually listened to him and raised my kids as Jews even though I still do all that other stuff, and it’s been, it’s been hard for my kids to be like, the only Jews in small town Iowa but I did raise them as Jews and they have that like, strong connection to a culture and I don’t push the religious part of it on them but I think it gives them an identity.
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  So what are your best memories of your time at Grinnell College?
Janice Binder & Chelsie Salvatera::  Well, one thing one of my roommates and I did, we took all of the furniture out of a lounge and put it in the middle of Mac Field, which wasn’t all that easy to do, y’know? Including a piano, and it was just me and her and like nobody knew how it got there. Or, one year we stole all of the hurdles and we put them some place - I can’t even remember - like, in some boy’s dorm.
Janice Binder::  Or... These one friends of ours, we had these practical jokes going back and forth, so they would put itching powder in our beds, and then we'd blow baby powder under their doors and me and Shauna, one of our friends we hung around with was, we were both really quiet so nobody expected it from us but we stole one of- some of the guys’ underwear and we dyed it all pink and then we stapled it up in the post office.
Janice Binder::  We were just like- like having a really good time and I hadn’t gotten to experience that before. With this group of people I felt so connected to- and I’m still connected to them. And I wish they were here. I was like- One of ‘em’s in Fairbanks right now and we were IMing this morning. I’m like, "You’re not here!" So. But, it’s given me a really good foundation to just feel comfortable, you know?
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  What dorm, what did your dorm room look like?
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  Okay. What kind of clothes did you wear every day as a Grinnell College student?
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  So wait, what kind of jo- where do you wor- where are you currently working?
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  How much would you say Grinnell influenced your career choice? Career path?
Janice Binder::  But it’s really nice, and I’ve actually used my Anthropology in a lot of ways in my job as a lawyer because when I first got out of law school I went to Appalachia, and lived in Hazard, Kentucky and it was a really different culture. I didn’t even understand like, the language, even though it was English. I had to have a paralegal translate for me. A lot of- I would go in a room and say, “What are you- What is she saying?” And to be open to that environment and not judge people and understand, y’know poverty and how that influenced people’s choices, was really important.
Janice Binder::  And then, when I came back to Iowa, I’ve represented people in prison and for the last ten or so years I’ve been representing kids in the juvenile justice system. Like, abused and neglected and delinquent kids. Sometimes their parents, and I think there’s a lot of misunderstanding about different cultures and the county I worked in in Iowa had the highest disproportionate minority involvement of like, any county in the country for a while.
Janice Binder::  When you talk to people about like, what the different understandings are and how people treat each other, it’s amazing like not understanding different people’s culture, just like African American hair care becomes this huge issue between parents and foster parents. And, understanding why a parent will do something in one situation, then I got, like, a white social worker just out of college won’t understand why and instead of trying to get together and understand each other there’s a lot of judgment and a lot of discommunication and people pull apart from each other. So, I think my Anthropology degree has helped me a lot with that, although it’s not very apparent though, on the surface.
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  Wow. That's a lot.
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  I see. How has Grinnell changed since you were a student?
Janice Binder::  But I- He talks a lot about how he still sees cliques at Grinnell and he tries not to be part of any particular group but to go between all different people and get along with everyone, and that that’s really who he wants to be. But he says sometimes that makes him feel like he really doesn’t belong anywhere, but on the other hand I’ve seen like more international students and that has been just amazing. I love that. He’s got a roommate that he had for two years who was from Bolivia and that he’s been really close to, and the roommate’s ex-girlfriend was originally from Nepal and now- and then from India and she’s really sweet. And I love this-
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  I know who you’re talking about.
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  I'll go introduce myself to him when I see him.
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  So how do you know also- You must come here often, then.
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  (Gasp) I know Gabe! Wait- oh, no, I don’t know Gabe. Nevermind.
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  So did you meet your spouse at Grinnell by any chance?
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  So if you knew then what you know now, what would you have done differently during your time at Grinnell?
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  It sounds like, your stories, you're pretty outgoing.
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  Describe student and campus life as you experienced it during your time at Grinnell.
Chelsie Salvatera & Janice Binder::  So, if you were writing a history of Grinnell College what would you include from your four- from your years here?
