Jarren Santos::  Great. So, we'll have you start with just telling your name and where you're from and your class year.
Avram Machtiger::  I'm Avram Machtiger.  Here I was going by my nickname "Ave". I was class of 1974 and I live in Pittsburgh, PA. And I'm gonna go-so.. I guess, we go to the first question: why did you come to Grinnell and what is your first memory of the campus? I grew up in England. I'm American but my family was over there and if you were part of the ex-pat community then, you sent your kids back to the States for college. They'll fix the- er, too much foreign influence. So I didn't want to go back to areas I lived in in the States...
Avram Machtiger::  I was an oil brat kid, but I didn't want to go to an oil brat school like Texas- in Texas or Oklahoma like some of my peers. I wanted to find a small, private, liberal arts college. I really wanted to go all the way to California, but my parents said, "No! It's too far!". I mean, I still came 4,500 miles by myself anyway.
Avram Machtiger & Jarren Santos::  Grinnell had a very good reputation on the ex-pat circuit, and, going back to the States for college, why not? And something- something just impressed me along the way- I think some alums that live in London, and I came by myself. I flew from London to New York, then New York to Des Moines, and my first memories are 60 miles of corn and soy, and thinking, after 4 years at that point, in London, England, "Oh, my God. What have I done?"
Avram Machtiger & Jarren Santos::  My first- another first impressions was.... the American students- well, the Grinnell students were really hard for me to connect with because I grew up overseas, and because I did things at an earlier age than they did. I didn't go to high school. I didn't have to come here to have my first alcoholic drink. I was able to completely travel 4,500 miles by myself and set myself up here at 18. I actually fell in with friends just with juniors and seniors, 'cause that's where the maturity level was. I didn't get to be friends with my college peers until towards the end of our sophomore year, and we kind of like, met up, you know?
Jarren Santos & Avram Machtiger::  So you- yeah, you think having came from abroad you had this sort of increased like, worldliness, or something like that?
Avram Machtiger & Jarren Santos::  And actually, I will share this, I treated my first sememster like, "Aren't the natives fascinating?" Second semester, I completely flatlined. I look back and I go- undiagnosed clinical depression, 'cause it's like, "Am I American? Am I British? I'm not British. I don't want to ha- Where do I go? Where do I stay?" And then that summer I just thought, "I have to pick a place." And actually, England was going through a lot of tumultuous, sexual and cultural changes, and it really wasn't the place to be at that point. There were fourteen week garbage strikes, many months long mail strikes. I never got mail from my family when I was here. The coal miners went on strike, and so then we had electricity strikes in the city. The country was falling apart.
Jarren Santos & Avram Machtiger::  It must have been more different too, now that.... now that communicating with people like, wherever, is so easy-
Avram Machtiger & Jarren Santos::  I got a phone call from my parents maybe once a semester at a pre-arranged time, because we only had hall phones.
Jarren Santos & Avram Machtiger::  So, where do you- where did you live your first year, I guess?
Avram Machtiger & Jarren Santos::  My big trunk from England was my coffee table. I had millions of records 'cause I was a KDIC DJ..... I had to make it a very home-y room, 'cause that's where I lived.
Jarren Santos & Avram Machtiger::  And what was your major?
Jarren Santos & Avram Machtiger::  And I have- I have another question: what kind of clothes did you wear every day as a Grinnell student or on special occasions?
Jarren Santos & Avram Machtiger::  And-
Jarren Santos & Avram Machtiger::  And, I guess, describe your favorite place on campus if there is one.
Jarren Santos & Avram Machtiger::  Then, is there anything else you'd like to- any stories, any intersting moments that have been brought back up?
Jarren Santos & Avram Machtiger::  Are you surprised about- do you think, like, the campus or anything else, the culture, has changed anything? Like, big ways, or do you think it feels somewhat the same?
Avram Machtiger & Jarren Santos::  ...And I don't know. I don't know how to- like, s- I'd have to come here and like, actually sit in classes and like, hang out and stuff to like, really get a sense of how the culture has changed, but...
