Jarren Santos::  Okay, so.... first, I'm just gonna have you state your name and where you currently live, and what class you were.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  Okay, now, my maiden name is the one I had when I was here. So, I'll give you that, too.
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  And where are you from?
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  So, I guess, we can start with saying- I'll ask you how- why did you come to Grinnell? How did you find out about it?
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  And you lived in Greenfield back then as well?
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  What did you major in at Grinnell?
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  Do you remember if- yeah, do you remember where you... where did you live when you first got to Grinnell? What dorm?
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  And the South Campus was all women back then?
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  And what are some of your most vivid memories, or your best memories, do you think, of your time? Here- has being back here, like, calling any up, do you think?
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  So, I guess our boys must have been second or something, but nobody around here wanted to vote, so they had an intramural. They used to have all sorts of intramurals tha- besides- in addition to sports, they had singing, and they had.... dancing, and they had this-that and they had that thing, so they added debate to the roster, and then you got so many points, your cottage did, for participation. So, there was great pressure to participate whether you thought you were gonna win it or not, and so, when we went to the dorm meeting, it- they just.... Everybody decided that my friend Dee and I would participate in the debate, 'cause we- I guess they thought we were the most likely ones to win one.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  Well, we did, too. The- that year, the state competition and the national competition were on the same weekend, and.... Dee and I were sophomores, and then we had a very good senior team. Well, the seniors went to the nationals, so they sent the sophomores to the state. And... just by- being sophomores, we won the state competition.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  Then just things for fun that I did, I remember very well, too, because we- there were lots of clubs you could join, although they pressured you as a freshman not to join more than two, because freshman typically haven't realized how much homework there's gonna be.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  And then we also had- some students brought their own horses.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  And then.. what else was memorable? Well, the academics were excellent.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  And what else did I like especially? Well, one thing that was pretty special, I think, was to go to the... Grinnell had an exchange program with Hampton Institute in Virginia, which is a... was at that time, a Black college.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  So, I think it was very instructive to actually go there, and, of course, what you discover is that they're not much different than we are.
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  And.. I guess.... Do you have any memories of the town of Grinnell? I guess you said- you mentioned the horses, but- I mean- and the town has probably- Do you think it's changed a lot, the town? Or do you think it kinda seems the same?
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  We also had volunteers that- to do something, you know, in the town, if we could think of anything, and they had an after-school recreational program.
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  And do you have any special, like, places on campus that are still around? Like any dorm or academic building that stands out?
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  What did you- what did your dorm- Do you have any memories of your dorm room, what it looked like?
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  And you studied mostly in the dorm? Was the library there then? What was the library...?
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  Yes, I... I worked ten hours a week for all four years as a librarian.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  So, I used to- some days, I'd wear my glasses, and some days I wouldn't, and I kept track of how many invitations I got. I would work behind the desk, although, it was 'cause I was there.
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  And... I guess, would you have done anything.. anything differently looking back at your Grinnell experience, or was it.. sort of satisfying as it stands?
Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  What I would do, when I was a freshman here, was to study the classes I liked the best, and then I wouldn't have time left over to study the class that I didn't like. So, what I did was- and I do that to this day, my circle method. I put- I- for each, like if I was taking five classes, and they were all three credit courses, then I would put however- maybe four circles a week for homework on.... on a line, on each of these five days, and I would make sure that I did- I didn't do anything else until I'd filled in my circles and given each class its due, whether I liked it or not. And then if I wanted to- needed to study more on one class, or wanted to study more, or wanted to forget the whole thing and go horseback riding, or-
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  But all my flexi- Before I could be flexible, I got that first fours hours in, and once I switched to that system when I was a sophomore, I started getting straight A's.
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  So the cl- would you say the classes were especially hard, or not hard, or what were the academics like?
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  And you didn't meet anybody on campus who was from... I don't know, other parts of the country, or the world, or was it... more... I don't know, Iowa-centric, or..?
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  But you stop noticing things that way. After you've been here a while you just, you're more likely to know which dorm somebody lives in, or something.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  For - one of the times that was the most fun was- they had a spring brea- a Spring Day, and it was always a surprise what day that it would be. But they would... after the 8 AM classes had started, they would... ring the passing bells and announce that Spring Day was here, and on Spring Day, you did something for your professors in the morning, mow their lawn or something, or paint their garage, or whatever they wanted done, and then they always had a ferris wheel. And then they had this big ferris wheel going- for the- not only for the students, but also for anybody in the town who wanted to come ride it, and it was free. And they had... a picnic lunch, and... I kind of forget the details, but we ate- It was not going to classes anyway; it was just devoted to having fun.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  They started a Sailing Club where they flooded- the powers that be flooded a valley near here.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  I don't know, really. Spring was a nice time here because the winter was so awful.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  During the winter time, my boyfriend and I discovered how to get into the Herrick Chapel basement where it was warm, and had a picnic there.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  Also, one thing, everyone's kind of got- I've never told anybody this, because I broke the rules, but the... They wouldn't tell us what the dinner menu was because there were some nights that we probably just wouldn't come if we knew what the dinner menu was. I- the usually- we knew they usually served fish on Friday, but we would- I- people wanted more details on the dinner menus, and so.... I used to work some in the infirmary and the nurse always had the dinner menus 'cause she had to feed anybody who was in the infirmaryand decide what foods to buy, what was OK to bring in- you know. So, I- we took to.... So I used to take one of the dinner menus from the nurse's office, or copy- I copied- and then give it to somebody else in my dorm who would ta- a couple of other girls who would type it up, and we used to go around post- posting 'em on the... bulletin boards.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  Well, this was very upsetting. I don't know why the administration got so upset about this, but the idea that we knew what was for dinner really seemed to upset them, and they said if it didn't stop at once, and they found out who was doing it, they would certainly expell her, and I... I wasn't sure they would do that. I mean, how many straight-A students did they have anyway? But, anyway, they- Anyway, they threatened to. It was.... But, also they got so they- they would go around all the bulletin boards and take the menus off, so then we went around at night and put the menus in the... in the bathroom stalls, and then they.... And they- they could- I don't think they ever figured that one out, and nobody took 'em down. Anybody could've taken 'em down, of course, but people really liked knowing what was for dinner, so....
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  So, anyway, that was my... I'm usually not very naughty, but I got a kick out of it. But, then they decided to look at where these, you know, where these were coming from... You know, how we were breaking their security system to get the menus, and the nurse started to put her- put the menus in a locked drawer, so then I couldn't get 'em anymore.
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  Do you think, like.... Do you think- I don't know if you can tell, but do you think the students or the culture of Grinnell has changed a lot in this - in that time, or when you're back do you still feel there's some sort of fundamental similarity?
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  But, no- I think the- much bigger. I toured the campus. I showed it to my granddaughter. I recommended Grinnell to two nieces, and one of them came here.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  But, anyway.... And then I showed it to another granddaughter, but.... and she loved- She was resistant to visiting it, 'cause I think I talked it up too much, but then she did, and.... you know. So... But- she loved it too, but I think she wanted to go to school closer to home. She was living- we were living in Amherst, Mass, then, and she went to Mount Holyoke.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  There was one thing that annoyed me while at college here.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  But anyway, that didn't.... I'm mad at myself, because this was partly my fault, that- what happened, but it was partly Grinnell's too. They- we- the freshman at Grinnell... Well, anyway, after my vocations course I thought I would be a high school English teacher.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  Well, I liked Psychology, and so I picked Psychology instead of English, and that was a very serious mistake, because Psychology is not taught in high school as much, and the.... I didn't even think about it... I was so dumb. I dunno. I was so used to being taken care of, I don't think it had really sunk in that I might have to take care of myself sometime, you know? I mean, it just... So anyway.... Anyway, I took Psychology and then when I was a senior, I waited until halfway throught the senior year before I thought, "Gee, what am I gonna do next?"
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  And so, I went to my professor, the department chair, and asked him, you know, "I'm about to graduate. Where should I look for a job?" And he said, "Well, if you're a man, you could go to any corporation and get hired in their personnel department. But, since you're a woman, do you type?" And, "'Cause you're going to have to pass on now as a secretary, and then when they realize how capable you are, they might let you do something more interesting."
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  Well, I said, "Well, I'm not gonna do that." And so then the professor said, "Oh, well, in that case you'll need to go to graduate school." And I said, "But I don't have the money." So he said, "Oh, well, in that case, fill out these forms." which were applications for fellowships.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  Well, I got the Danforth Foundation Fellowship, which is a real... They had given 50 fellowships a year to men, who wanted to become college professors, to go to graduate school. But that year, as an experiment, they decided to give 45 to men, and 5 to women. And... I got one.
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  So, that was.... Well, I suppose not telling me I wasn't going to be able to get a job was good for me in the long run because I got to go to Harvard on that. But, I- on the other hand, I think it was very irresponsible. I think they didn't want to warn the women about the job situation, because then they wouldn't have had as many Psychology majors.
Jarren Santos & Catherine Hampton Ditmore::  So are there- is there anything else you have... to say about your time at Grinnell? Any memories, stories that you find... strike you now- right now, or...?
Catherine Hampton Ditmore & Jarren Santos::  I never regretted having come to Grinnell.
