Leighton Bowers::  I’m Leighton Bowers, class of ’04 and I live in Los Angeles, California.
John Bowers::  And I’m her husband John Bowers, 2006. So, together.. We live together in Los Angeles.
Chelsie Salvatera::  If you guys could talk a little bit louder...
John Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  Yup, a little louder? Should we move it toward us too?
John Bowers::  I actually heard about Grinnell from my high school guidance counselor, who did the... She was specifically the college counselor and actually her daughter went here so she had kind of an inside. She had a special connection to the school and sort of sought me out, sort of singled me out as a person who she thought would really enjoy it here, would really do well because I was involved in a lot of different things in high school and the smallness of the community here enables you to kind of still be a polymath. You can still kind of do a lot of different things.
Leighton Bowers::  I applied to ten schools, and one of them was Grinnell. All the other schools were big schools in big cities because I wanted to be a costume designer, and I applied to Grinnell because my junior year of high school I had Doug Cutchins as my history teacher and he talked about Grinnell all the time but he kind of pulled me aside and told me that he thought that I would really like it and that I should check it out. He had just been hired back by Grinnell so I thought, "All right, I think I can get in with this recommendation from this person," and so it was actually kind of a backup school when I applied and then when I visited I just fell in love with the school. It was like- I mean I bought a sweatshirt and it’s like that was where I was going. I met with Pip Gordon when I was here and she kind of convinced me that it was gonna be OK that there wasn’t costume design but that I’d be able to do it and then go to grad school and it worked out great.
John Bowers::  This is actually the only school that I applied to. I don’t think I mentioned that. I did about half of the application to Washington University in St. Louis, but I didn't- I- I also visited the campus and then it was just kinda, “OK, This is it. This is where I need to be.”
Leighton Bowers::  Yeah. For me the difference was that the other schools I visited, I- it was like God you’re like embarrassed when you’re on a tour as a prospie and like, students are kind of laughing and they’re like, “Oh look, high school kids!” and think it’s really funny, and then at Grinnell I spent the night and the next day did my tour of the campus and people were like, “Oh hey, Leighton!” and like, my name like, knew who I was and it was just like, "I belong here."
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers::  My Grinnell story is actually a combination of both of yours. The same.
John Bowers::  I believe- I think I actually first visited the campus.. It was after I first finished the application and I came and visited over winter break, and so it was totally- it was totally frozen. We just kinda, y'know, we drove in and it was a ghost town but it was just, it was idyllic. It was really quite beautiful. I never did the sort of traditional prospie thing, I never came and visited actually when class was in session. No, that’s not true! That's not true. I’m sorry, I came the summer after I graduated from high school. I did a visit because we graduated, I think, earlier.
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  You’re not supposed to make it up as you go along.
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  See I came in the spring and it was beautiful.
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  'Kay. So, was there a professor, student or staff member who had a particularly strong influence on your life?
John Bowers::  I mean, honestly, I would say that Doug has probably had a stronger influence on my life than any other person who works for the college, just because he was the one who got you here, and then, y'know, so we were able to actually meet and then also he shepherded me through the Teach for America application so that meant that I was able to move out to Los Angeles and y'know, we were able to be together again. So yeah, I think Doug has kinda been there at lot of different steps along the way.
Leighton Bowers::  For me though, there were two people that were really important and the first was Pip Gordon because she’s the one that really convinced me to come, and she, she told me when I was a prospie like, "We will- Y’know when you study abroad you can study what you wanna study in any class you take. You can gear it toward that. We’ll have independent studies. You’ll have a portfolio you need to go to grad school," and she totally followed through and I- and she did all of those things for me and really helped me through it, helped me with my grad school applications and I got into the grad school I wanted. I mean it was exactly what she promised.
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  Even though she was not your advisor, I mean, you were a history major.
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  So are you guys both history majors?
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  What are your best memories of your time at Grinnell College?
Leighton Bowers::  I mean, I miss the most, I think- I miss... OK, I’ll say like, the caliber of conversation that you have. Just, mundane conversations, are fascinating and you learn so much but actually my answer is I really just miss Harris parties, ‘cause that’s the thing that like, both our hear- Today, that kind of thing is not stuff you really experience after college but sometimes, like, y'know if you see a Grinnellian or you live near one or like, you can still do that, or if you marry one, you can still have those conversations. But Harris parties, never again. Extremely sad.
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  Isn't there one tonight?
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  What was your favorite Harris? Can you remember?
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  Which Harris was it?
Chelsie Salvatera::  So, what did your dorm room look like? Any one..
Leighton Bowers::  I had terrible, terrible dorm rooms. Every year they were very small, and I had a fight in the housing thing because my friend and I were gonna, we had a, we were like looking at the rooms and the ones we wanted were gone and then we were like, “Oh that one looks good,” and just as we were saying it these jerks, these boys, like got in front of us and were like- and it became a like, we’d look at each other and then grab for the pencils and they pushed me out of the way and I was like, “Are you serious?" And then I was like, "What’s your housing number?” And they were like, y’know whatever, and mine was better. So I look at the guy- oh I wish I remembered who it was. I was so mad. Steve Larson. I look at Steve Larson, I was like, “Doesn’t that give us precedence?” and he goes, “Whoever gets their name down first.” And I was like, “I'm gonna punch you in the face.”
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  And you did?
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  We were neighbors with these jerks, who were in the biggest room.
Leighton Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  It was in James pit.
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  Yeah, you wanted the other room in James pit?
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  See I nev- I never actually went to room draw. I never had that experience.
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  I think it was in the Forum sometimes too, but yeah, my first year obviously you don’t, that’s not something that you do. You just get assigned to a Quad and we had one of those with the big common room and all of our desks were out there and we had the beds in the other two small rooms. But then my second year I was an SA, so I didn’t have to do room draw. I just had the really nice room on Langan third. I was Langan third, right? Yeah, Langan third.
John Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  Right. And because I was in Moscow in the spring, someone else actually got me my single on Clark second for my senior year, and we had several singles in a row of guys. Three guys who actually were my groomsmen, who were among my groomsmen at our wedding three years ago.
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  Yeah. No I did though- I complained a lot so I have to say my good story. My senior year I lived with my best friend in another very small apart – dorm, which makes no sense also ‘cause we were seniors. I don’t even know how that happened. But we were in East, and then a very good friend of mine, McGil, came and asked if we would like to move into his four room triple the next semester because he was living there with ano- He was a jun- he was a year younger so he was a junior and he was living there with another junior and a second semester senior. That’s how they got this room, and she was gonna graduate and the other junior was going abroad, so he was gonna be alone in the four rooms, so we moved in there and it was amazing, ‘cause then you lived with your best friends but you still kind of have a single.
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  So it was... East Campus, or she was-
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  It had that name then, but nobody called it that.
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  Lazier’s actually class of ’51, so people here are like, “Oh yeah, that was my classmate.”
John Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers::  Did th- Do all four have names now?
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  I think that was the, that was Ash-
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers::  So what kind of clothes did you guys wear on special occasions?
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  And then tried to wear after we graduated
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  Yeah. Well yeah, I mean I’m a costume designer so it’s like... It’s an interesting question to have on here, I think. But, I also have size 12 feet which means like, if you need shoes for something like Disco or whatever, I really had very limited options. So I- I mean I definitely bought a pair of really heinous black platforms and then covered them in sequins.
Leighton Bowers::  Right, right, yes. But I know I always, I was very good at layering because it would be so cold but then you’d get to class and it would be so hot because the heat would be on so high so you have to be able to take off- Like you couldn’t wear like- my mom would always try to send me back with long underwear and I'm like, “You don’t understand. I need tank tops under my eight layers of wool, but it’s gotta be something I can get off in class. Long underwear doesn’t work.” So it- Ugh, so cold.
Leighton Bowers::  And... I don't know. I wore some really, really bizarre things. I had a lot of really short skirts one year, like that was the thing and oh man, I was just thinking about the shoes that I owned at the time and I was like, ‘cause I was trying to remember what I wore to Harris ‘cause I was like, "Can I wear heels? I might get really... I don’t wanna slip in beer," Like, that was always the thing, and I was like, "I know I didn’t wear tennis shoes. What did I wear?" Because I can’t imagine I was wearing heels and getting stepped on but... Ugh. I don’t wanna think about it, I think.
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  I feel like I had that gray zip-up Grinnell College hoodie that I wore a lot and for some reason – oh! It was because Andy was in Boston at the time. I had a Boston Red Sox hat that I wore a lot.
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  What book influenced you most in college? If you can recall? Not many can recall books.
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  Who’s the one that testified in the....?
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  That's- She wrote my other marriage book. They’re all- all my favorite books are from this class I did with Victoria Brown because she - I mean, from like History of Women in the US - because what I loved with the way she structured the class was that instead of it being kind of like a survey she instead decided to sort of pick a thesis and all the books supported that thesis. So she kind of told us, "This is not the only way of looking at kind of the chronology and what led to what. However – "
Leighton Bowers::  This is one, yeah, this is one sort of viewpoint. And I liked that because then you kind of come out of it with kind of a narrative, and something you can actually like, kind of take and argue about. And we had an article too, called “The Opt-Out Revolution” which I thought was fantastic and I’ve also made sure to have downloaded that to my computer so I have it like- I can always print it out. I’ve sent it to so many people.
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers:: 
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  Cool. What memories or images do you have of the town of Grinnell?
John Bowers::  Like we did last night. We bought a little portable fan ‘cause it was quite hot.
Leighton Bowers::  Oh! I have something- I wanna go back to number three because I just remembered my best memory. One of my best memories is that we got Mitch Hedberg to come my sophomore year and he was like the greatest comedian and I loved him and I met so many people based entirely on the fact that we all loved him because at the time nobody had ever heard of him and ACE got him to come and my ex-boyfriend was the person on ACE that was in charge of that, and I had like introduced him to Mitch’s comedy so when he came I got to like, pick him up from his hotel and bring him to Harris and drive him to the airport the next day.
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  It was so exciting, and friends who had graduated came back. I actually saw Ben Folds in Minneapolis on like the Friday, and then drove back to Grinnell on Saturday with an alum so that we could go see Mitch that night. It was crazy.
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  It was like how we could afford Bruce Springsteen, like right before he got big.
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers::  How has Grinnell changed since you guys were students?
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  It doesn’t really seem to have changed. I mean there's obviously the physical change of the campus, but we actually just went to an admitted students event in Los Angeles that was sponsored by the college, and talking to those incoming freshman, they have exactly the same spirit that I had at that time in my life. It’s like a snapshot of, just the enthusiasm and the engagement and the interest and sort of the, already sort of dedication to social justice that they have that I feel like I sort of gained while I was here. But I don’t think, it doesn’t seem like it really has changed.
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  And the like, speaking with alums though, like older people in Los Angeles, because Los Angeles, I feel like we actually have a lot of alumni but they’re not... It’s not like Chicago. It’s not like young alumnus, alumni is the plural.
John Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers::  There’s a really strong kind of an ethos that is- really seems consistent.
Leighton Bowers::  Nobody just ended up here. It was like everybody’s choice and y'know, even the people that had to do it because that was the most affordable thing or whatever that in a sense ended up here, like, you still had to.... It was still a decision and so I, I really like, treasure that and I think that’s why you get that consistency throughout all those classes.
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  Describe something that is no longer available on campus but that was meaningful to you. Buildings, programs...
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  Our cat’s name is Darby.
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  How many?
John Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers::  Mai recommended, “Old Glove Factory.”
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers::  That's a good idea. I wanna tell people about that one. Describe your favorite academic experience or class at Grinnell.
John Bowers::  PoliSci. Just, incredibly difficult, really dense material that taught me how to read. ‘Cause you don’t really realize at that point in your life, after you’ve read so much that you don’t really know how to read. You don’t appreciate that until you’re really asked to dig into these very dense kind of texts, and he just brought... such an interest, such a passion to the subjects but also just a lot of, kind of gravitas. Like a lot of, you get the impression that he knows all of the undergirding logical structures and you have to replicate that knowledge in your own mind in order to actually get to that point.
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  So I think that was- That was the class in which I think I grew the most as a reader and as a writer. And, it was also the lowest grade that I got at Grinnell. So...
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  Except actually my favorite class- well, not necessarily my favorite but I think the most important was Human Sexuality, which was kind of - with Sylvia Thorson-Smith - and it was kind of a, like kind of a pat class, like kind of a, like our final was to draw a picture of our sexuality. Like, whatever that means. I mean, it was- It was, y'know, but it’s... totally changed my life.
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  Describe your favorite place on campus. If you have one...
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers::  If you knew then what you know now, what would you have done differently during your time at Grinnell College?
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers::  Where’d you go abroad?
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  See I kind of think I- Yeah, right, and I had the opposite problem which you allude to at the end there, which is that I didn’t know what my next step was going to be. I mean, I tossed around the idea of grad school which we all do - I just learned this morning that 85% of Grinnellians go on to some kind of grad school which is…
John Bowers::  Or plan to, that’s what it is. That's what it is. And so, if I have anything that I would do differently, I think that I would have taken fewer classes in my major, my majors. I took, by the end of my time at Grinnell I had taken every single math course that was available and every Russian course that was available with the exception of the Russian Novel with Professor Mohan, who unfortunately died while I was here, so that was, that was tragic.
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  But I think yeah, I think I would have... It is those classes that were outside of those two areas of specialty that really enriched my experience in the greatest way, and so I think that I would’ve done more of that. Because, what you gain with a liberal arts education is not expertise in a specific field, it is the ability to research, the ability to problem solve, the ability to analyze and synthesize.
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera::  So, yeah I think that that’s the- Oh, and also I would’ve visited, I would’ve traveled more while I was studying abroad. So I would’ve visited St. Petersburg. I would’ve gone out and seen pther things other than Moscow.
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  Okay. Since you guys obviously met here, describe how you met and fell in love.
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  Quick pause. You studied- Her- Your- Her study abroad year was during my first year.
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  'Cause they didn’t know if we would really hate each other
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  But anyways, so we sort of dated like, a little bit, like a month at the beginning of my senior year and then he was like, “Oh, I think, you know, we should get to know each other.”
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  "I’m really interested in this other girl. I should- I really wanna pursue that, so..." So, it was like, "OK, fine." And then he didn’t go pursue that other girl or try to hang out with me and get to know me better...
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  No. He was not apprised, and so he was like heartbroken and nobody had ever dumped him before.
Leighton Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers::  But see, I knew when we met that we’d be really good for each other, and it just took a little bit of time for him to like, realize that, so...
Chelsie Salvatera & Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  So you guys just, like, kept contact, or like completely long distance-?
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  But it was just enough more time that it was not... it was sort of like we’d been together too long to just break up but not really long enough to try and do long distance for two years, so that was sort of just enough more that it was like, yeah.
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  I mean, whenever we could, and like I went to his house for Thanksgiving that– or, I came, the very beginning of his senior year and spent a couple weeks in Grinnell and then I went there for Thanksgiving.
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  So how long have you guys been married?
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  In North Ca- You’re originally from?
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers::  OK so, I'll go to the last question, since the fourth, you guys answered... fifteen. If you were writing a history of Grinnell College, what would you include from your years here?
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  I have no idea. I really wish I knew the narrative, like the –
Leighton Bowers & Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers::  But I don’t feel like... Oh... Well, no, like politically - I mean I was here for September 11th and I feel like that would be a mention but in the end we’re in-
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  So- but it was an interesting time, like being in Iowa was sort of a weird experience because we all sort of felt like there could be a nuclear holocaust and we would still be here, and that we…
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  That was- you were in France for the Iraq invasion, weren't you?
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  Well, it’s these things that- It's these things that happened that really changed the mood of the campus.
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  And I think anytime there were... that there was like a, well, presidential primary but, democratic primary, because all the candidates would come here, I think that did as well. You kind of had this…
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  What other- were there any- were there other things that happened? That were like that?
Leighton Bowers & John Bowers::  Wait, what did you say before that?
John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  What I was gonna say though, is that it was before they were big, wasn't it?
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers::  Do you guys have any other, final things that you'd like to share? Another story, anything, final words..?
Chelsie Salvatera & John Bowers & Leighton Bowers::  These go in the archives online, actually.
