Brenna Ross::  Say your name, where you currently live and your class year.
Carol Addington::  My name is Carol Johnson Addington, known as Johnnie. I’m from the class of ’56. Fortunately went to school with George and we were very good friends, George Drake. I live in a little community outside of Birchwood, Wisconsin where we’ve retired from the Twin Cities where I lived, and lived after I was married.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  All right. So, I guess to start off, how did you first come to hear about Grinnell?
Carol Addington::  My grandparents were very good to me but they were very old and as an only child, I thought I needed to branch out my experience with other young people and stuff. I was very impressed with the College, came down and looked at it. I liked it very much and so that’s why I decided to come to Grinnell. I was glad I was accepted.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  So... just kinda going down the list here. Was there a professor or student, staff-
Carol Addington::  Sang in the choir and I loved singing the choir. I also did some acting in the plays, and I really enjoyed that. It was a wonderful experience to me to be down here and it was a growing time. I liked the concept of the freshman dorms because I made wonderful friends my freshman year. We are still friends. We still get together. We’re still the round robin group.
Carol Addington::  So, I think for me, just the development, it created in me, a really... drive for knowledge. I love to read. I love to take classes on things, and I guess that’s what Grinnell taught me, is that learning is really fun. And that's... that's been my experience. It was a great school for me. It’s a beautiful school. It’s very different than it was when I was here. The Quonset Hut Union that George talked about this morning was a wonderful place though ‘cause that’s where we got together and had coffee and we danced to the jukebox and the one TV on campus, the black and white TV where we came over to see things that were going on.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  So what would you say is the biggest change?
Carol Addington::  But I think just the whole campus atmosphere. I liked that they kept the center campus open and the buildings have gone the other way, but- the buildings have changed so much, but the campus is still lovely, warming, and the beautiful old homes. And the town is like three times as big as it was when we were here, I think.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  So where did you live?
Carol Addington & Brenna Ross::  On campus, oh! I started in Main Hall and then we always- we drew numbers to pick where to go and I drew number one.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  What kind of stuff did you do with the vaudeville group?
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  What other activities were you involved in?
Brenna Ross::  So what did you study? Or, what was your major?
Carol Addington::  Well, first we had the requirements that we had to do and I was just here two years. Then I went to the University of Minnesota. So, we did pretty much just the requirements and stuff so. I did take Shorthand and do the Secretarial course which I used and I still use shorthand ‘cause I’ve been on several boards and usually the secretary so, that was good training for that. But yeah, it was pretty much just the general stuff.
Carol Addington & Brenna Ross::  I think I thought I wanted to be an English teacher, but then when I went back to school I took a lot of courses and they thought I should be a Home Economics teacher because I’d raised a couple kids and that sort of thing. So, that’s kind of what I focused on most days, were some Teaching classes. I wish now, what I should’ve been now is a choral director. If I had it to do over again that’s what I’d do, because I have gone on to do a lot of that.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  So what kind of clothes, and what was your sort…
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  What book influenced you the most in college?
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  Is there a particular writer that...? It could be something, y’know- you like it more now.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  So, what’s one thing that’s gone from Grinnell now that was very important to you while you were here?
Carol Addington::  I’m glad the Library is still active and that students still read ‘cause I’m concerned about the computer. I think kids spend too much time at the computer, but... I can’t- the- experiences change. We walked to town. I’m sure they still walk to town. There’s a lot more traffic than there ever was. But it’s just, it’s grown like everything else has. I love to see where it’s become, in the college world, and that it has remained a very effective institution and I love reading about where it’s going. I think the diversity is wonderful because that was not there when I was here and I think that’s important for any educational institution to succeed. It has to be very diverse not only in their students but also in their courses and where they need to go.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  So what were, what are your memories of the town of Grinnell?
Carol Addington & Brenna Ross::  Just, it’s grown, so I don't know if I miss anything. I like that they preserved the beautiful old homes. I’m glad they haven’t torn them all down. Some of it’s a little contemporary. I don’t like to see that when they're such pretty homes but it’s grown and matured. The new.. the Joe is amazing, when I think that, how that’s changed. It’s quite a place. The food sure got- the meal last night was amazing, for a picnic.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  So what was your favorite place, like, academic building, on campus?
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  Wel,l that’s- oh, knowing what you know now, would you have done anything differently?
Carol Addington::  I think I would’ve been a good teacher because I worked with kids all my life, so I’m sorry that I wasn’t able to stay and finish my education and become a teacher but I have done a lot of choir directing and working with young people and I love that, so I’m glad I did that. And I would have studied that if I’da known- had the money. But it was that time, and it was just a big issue in my family. And my folks never did. They were killed in the war but they never came home so I stayed with my grandmother. So it was a struggle for her to finish it up.
Carol Addington::  Now there’s always some money somewhere. The kids quit and work for a while and then come back but we didn’t do that back in those days. I did go back and I finished a... about a year- almost completed a year but had some health issues, so... never did finish. But I worked- I worked in the school a month. So, I learned as I was growing old.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  If you were to kind of.. think of one thing that sort of differentiated your class from the classes before you and the classes after you, what would you say?
Carol Addington::  It’s a wonderful time. It’s wonderful to be able to come to college. I think it’s a growth period. The attitude about college is a lot different. Kids have more money now, or they think they have more money. They spend it whether they have it or not. I think the money thing is just really different because, we just never dreamed of doing the things that kids do now. I got an allowance so I could go out and get some ice cream and go to a movie once in a while. It was tough for guys to take girls out because they didn’t have the big chunks of- there weren’t a lot of jobs available that paid you a lot of money. So, it was just a period in the time, I think. Education, and I think kids are so much smarter, now. My kids are so much smarter than I am and school kids now and the topics to learn, Japanese and Chinese, and to study abroad, and- Oh man, it's wonderful.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  So what was the dating scene like on campus?
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  What were the programs people always....?
Brenna Ross::  So- oh, I just saw one on here that I was like, "Ooooh, that’s a good question." What would you say is- how have students changed now versus....?
Carol Addington::  Oh, well, I think they’ve changed a lot. I think that they know so much more. There’s more to know. There’s more to learn. There are more opportunities to learn. I think the drive for learning is probably stronger. The availability of stuff that’s there. The teachers are amazing, I think, you know, exceptional instructors. Not all of the teachers that were there back in those days were exceptional. There were good teachers. I had a couple that I was not sure I learned too much from and some I learned a lot from. I think now you just really learn if you really want to. The ability is there.
Carol Addington::  So, I think- and I- definitely technology has changed things. I’d- It'd be interesting to know how many students have a Kindle. Is that where books are? It’s cheaper. If we all have a Kindle, then we don’t have to buy all these books. But yeah, I need to go over to the Library and just see how the Library’s changed. That's- It’s a money thing. I mean, everything now, what we have costs a lot more. So, yeah. I just- They're brighter. There’s more to learn. There’s more opportunities and jobs that weren’t even in existence, of course, back 55 years ago.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  So if you were to add one story to the history of Grinnell.... or several stories?
Carol Addington::  I just, I don’t think I would change anything. It was perfect for me. It was more than I knew about and it fulfilled a lot of things in my searching, and as I say I've made good friends that I still have and I’m still connected to, so... It worked for me. It did for me what I needed. I wish I could’ve come back and stayed the whole four years.
Brenna Ross & Carol Addington::  Is there anything else you’d like to add?
