Heather Riggs::  Okay. Yeah, go ahead.
Barry Krost::  Barry Krost, class of 1981, and I live in Evanston, Illinois, right now.
Heather Riggs & Barry Krost::  Okay, great. Is there anything in particular that you came in wanting to talk about?
Barry Krost::  So, I have a lot of versatility to be able to improvise solutions that are good, problem-solving solutions using all the aspects of my being. And as I’ve enhanced those aspects, it only amplifies really, what Grinnell was for me, and even just- Y'know, this week, I’m just so aware, especially during a really particularly good session, I always think of Grinnell at the end of- somewhere during that session I think about, "Wow, you know I really have done something with it and thank God I was able to have that." ‘Cause I, more and more, see situations where I don’t have a- there’s no textbook, there’s no solution that I can just apply. I’ve gotta figure it out, and as I get more and more clients with more complicated issues, or my capacity to deal with a complicated issue grows, it’s just.. it's amazing what I can come up with and it wouldn’t have happened if I hadn’t come here.
Heather Riggs & Barry Krost::  What made you decide to come to Grinnell?
Barry Krost::  So, I came to Grinnell with sort of an agenda to learn more about human nature and I was pretty much sure I was gonna be Anthropology, and that’s one of the reasons I chose Grinnell. Knox had a Sociology-Anthropology department, and I didn’t want to even consider having a combined department. I really wanted to have an Anthropology department.
Barry Krost::  So... so I came and visited with a friend, and.. sat in a couple classes with Harold Kazimov who’s still here, and... I can’t remember who else it was, but sat in some classes and just was really impressed with the academic level. But also the fun of it: the person showing me around, he handed me and my friend a joint and said, “Have fun.” So it’s like, "Whoa, this is gonna be really out there. This is gonna be really cool, wow." So I wasn’t really a party person and I didn’t really come here to party but it really was sort of like, "Wow, anything is really possible here." There’s no box that you’re gonna have to sit in the whole four years. I was interested in blowing up my box and figuring out what a bigger box would be, or bigger boxes would be.
Heather Riggs & Barry Krost::  Great. I’m just curious, did you have Jon Andelson?
Heather Riggs & Barry Krost::  Yeah. Well, I was actually, my next question is, is there a professor that had a profiund influence on you?
Barry Krost & Heather Riggs::  It’s about as close to a perfect as I’ve ever had. It was a good- it was a fun paper to write, and I have lost the paper, unfortunately. But Andelson was great, and- Oh, yeah! Of course, you know, Professor Luebben. I loved Luebben, and... spent some fine times in the Pub with him. He didn’t come down vary often but I had some really interesting conversations at the Pub with him. And Professor Kurtz. He was great. Those were the three I took most of my courses with. I love the Anthropology department here.
Barry Krost & Heather Riggs::  I’m a natural healer, and instead of studying the healing world of... I actually became one. So I actually am in that place that I would’ve studied and I actually use the anthropological model every day, the participant-observer. I am a participant in my clients’ neurological and energetic experience but I’m also an observer watching how we’re responding to each other and how they're responding to themself and making some choices about what else I can show them. So I use anthropology every day of my life.
Heather Riggs & Barry Krost::  What are your best or strongest memories of your time at Grinnell?
Barry Krost & Heather Riggs::  So, we had some fab- and our arguments. I once argued about Marxism with a st- with Goutam Ghosh. We spent about six hours arguing about this thing. And none of us won but it was a fun- It was fun to meet people that you could really dance with in a conversation.
Heather Riggs & Barry Krost::  What were some of your favorite more academic experiences in the classroom?
Barry Krost::  So I think just all the classes I had- I don’t think I had a class here I didn’t like. I know some people here were looking for easy classes and there were some I regret I didn’t take but, there wasn’t a class that I thought, “That’s a waste of my time.” I still regret not taking Genetics. One semester I thought about it. I went, “Aw, I’ve got too many other hard classes. I don’t think I can do it.” But no, the academics always were.. they really were wonderful. I never missed class. I showed up.. I never got high for class. I just loved being in the classroom.
Heather Riggs & Barry Krost::  Crazy. Is there something that was meaningful to you on campus but that is no longer available?
Heather Riggs::  And- I mean, how did you use it?
Barry Krost & Heather Riggs::  It was the- it was the center of the campus. There was no way you could walk past the Forum without seeing somebody you knew probably sitting outside there, when it was- weather was good. Or you go in the Forum, and there- everybody was there, and it was a small enough place where you could not, y'know- and you had to go past it especially if you lived on South Campus. You’re going back from ARH to one of the dorms, back and forth. So there’s always somebody at the Forum. If I was feeling kind of anxious and just needed to find somebody to talk to-
Heather Riggs & Barry Krost::  How- in what other ways has Grinnell changed since you were student, either physically or just the social mentality?
Barry Krost & Heather Riggs::  So some of the play was very powerful in terms of really- it was like a very anthropological experience. You know? You’re suddenly- everybody is really high or really drunk or whatever and you would have conversations that were so unusual and strange and wonderful, and it.. it really opened up my sense of what human- what human interaction can be about. So hopefully you’re still playing hard.
Heather Riggs & Barry Krost::  What was the campus- or social life like during your time?
Barry Krost & Heather Riggs::  But we had fabulous jazz and every weekend there was a really nice activity at the Forum. A really good jazz, a really good folk or, you know, really good concerts. The Police came.
Heather Riggs & Barry Krost::  How would you compare the students of today with your classmates?
Barry Krost & Heather Riggs::  There was a lot more gray about... at least it felt more grayer to us, where even in my adult life now at 52, it's- things are much more black and white now, which is more challenging I think, because you almost have to have a stand and then somebody else has a stance that’s opposite and there’s not a lot of middle ground. Then, I felt like even- like we had a bunch of forums about the moral majority. It was not- we were still polite to the other side. It wasn’t like they came in here and we’re gonna yell at them and they’re gonna yell at us. They came in and we had a frank discussion about what they felt. We brought in one of the leading people in Iowa for them, and then we brought in Tom Harkin who was a senator from Iowa. His son went to Grinnell.
Barry Krost::  I don’t know if he's- So he came in and we had Harkin and we had the other, and we had a wonderful discussion and the College was very supportive. They didn’t give us a lot of money or anything but they were... Y’know, we talked to President Drake and the other folks what we wanted to do and they realized we were really doing something serious and nice and it was great.
Heather Riggs & Barry Krost::  Okay. What makes your class distinct from classes before you and classes after you?
Heather Riggs::  If you were writing a history of Grinnell College, what would you include from your- from your years here?
Barry Krost & Heather Riggs::  I think, I probably would discuss some of these discussions that we had. I would remember things we talked about. That’s what I remember the most, is conversations that I had with different people, or I remember a number of lectures that Andelson gave.
Barry Krost & Heather Riggs::  He told us a story about... during the Cuban Missile Con- Crisis, where they.. People were like starting to build bomb shelters underneath their homes. They really thought it’s gonna happen. He told it- Yeah, they were so- everybody was so frightened and he told a story and it was one of the few times he told a story that was so personal from his own experience here. He didn’t really usually get that far into his personal activities, but he told a story about his family and other families in Grinnell and their fear of the end.
Heather Riggs & Barry Krost::  Well, I don’t have any more questions. Do you have anything else you’d like to add?
Barry Krost & Heather Riggs::  And my experience here was great. There was a lot of hard parts. I wish I could come back now. I have a regular dream where I come back at my current age and it’s more how I would do it now. I wish I had been more relaxed and more ease on myself back then. I think I would’ve gotten more - as much as I got from Grinnell I probably missed out on quite a bit. I regularly have a dream where I come back and I do that, so it’s nice being back. It’s changed and I’ve changed, but it’s so much a part of who I am. It's really nice being back.
