Kathryn Vincent::  So, on the front of this sheet there is a "My name is..." If you just wanna say your name, the city you're currently living in, and your class year..... (Sounds from adjusting microphone.) And that should--
Virginia Lobell Rosen & Kathryn Vincent::  You want our maiden name and our current name?
Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  Start?
Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Kathryn Vincent::  My name is Phyllis Miller Lawrence, and I live in Indianapolis, Indiana, and I’m in class- also the Class of 1948.
Kathryn Vincent & Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  So, why did you come to Grinnell College?
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  So, what was your first memory of being on campus?
Kathryn Vincent & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  And what was your first memory?
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  Was there a professor, student, or staff member who had a particularly strong influence on your life at Grinnell?
Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Kathryn Vincent::  I don't rem- I liked all of my teachers. I thought they were all very good. The one teacher that threw the fear of God into me was my Biology teacher, and I was... I’ve never forgotten her, but the whole- I liked all of them.
Virginia Lobell Rosen & Kathryn Vincent::  I can tell you about my favorite class, and the one I got the worst grade in, and that was Photography. We were a small campus, and I very much wanted to take a Photography class, and we were told that if we could get six people together, we could have a class. So we recruited all over campus and we got six people together and I just loved the studio work--
Kathryn Vincent & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  So what are some of your best memories from Grinnell?
Virginia Lobell Rosen & Kathryn Vincent::  We all ate in the dining room on the... what is now the South Campus, and we had to dress for dinner every night.
Margaret Lawrence Banning & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Kathryn Vincent::  When you were there, it was the last year of the war, so talk about the student population.
Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  Ginny, didn’t we sort of... I don’t want to say make fun of those 17 young men, but it seems to me that as young women we were sort of.. we hazed them and we did.. I don't know, I think making fun of them just sticks in my mind, and I think back on it now and I’m very embarrassed about that because we shouldn’t have picked on them.
Margaret Lawrence Banning & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  And then when the- all the veterans came back they changed the honor code?
Kathryn Vincent & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  So what did your dorm room look like when you were here? Do you have any fond memories of--?
Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  I remember a very comfortable room, and we had matching- We- Jill Scott and I coordinated ahead of time to coordinate what bedspreads to put on the bed. I remember that was a very important thing! I don’t remember draperies, but I do remember the coordinating Bates bedspreads. And it was a pleasant room, very pleasant.
Virginia Lobell Rosen::  I lived in Cleveland my freshman year, and I had a single. It was probably the smallest room in the dorm, but it overlooked campus, and I went down to the lumber store in town and bought a few pieces of wood and built a bookcase under the windowsill, and very much enjoyed my view of the campus.
Margaret Lawrence Banning & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  Senior year you were both in Loose.
Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Margaret Lawrence Banning & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  Ginny, do you remember when we used that area- of the lounge area in Main, the roof of that, and we went out there sunbathing? Of course, I think about it now with all of skin cancer and I shudder, but weren't we- wasn’t there always somebody, as soon as the sun started to get warm, didn’t they crawl through that window and…?
Margaret Lawrence Banning & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  But Loose was like the Taj Mahal. Did you have any parties in the lounge when you moved in?
Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  It was a very elegant lounge. It was so deluxe and so modern compared with all the other buildings, and you’re right, we weren’t allowed to just go in there and sit. We went into the lounge only for special occasions.
Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  And upstairs we had a little kitchenette at the end of the--
Margaret Lawrence Banning & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  What kind of things would you cook if you had a little spare time?
Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  But there was a little table and chairs in there and very often, late at night people would go in there and play bridge or something like that, sort of ending the day, but it was just so nifty to have those facilities. And I think we also had an ironing board, which probably is never used now, but we did iron clothes then. Press out your skirt.
Virginia Lobell Rosen::  Our campus was all women. The men were up in the North Campus; the women were in the South Campus, and we were very casual. We had one telephone at the end of the hall. Nobody had a room telephone. Nobody had a cell phone.  They weren’t in existence yet, so whoever would answer the phone would holler out the name of the person, she’d come running down the hall in her slip or whatever, and we were all very casual.
Kathryn Vincent & Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  What kind of clothes did you wear on a regular basis when you were here?
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  Were there any special occasions you remember dressing up for?
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  Any big dances or anything like that that you would dress up for?
Virginia Lobell Rosen::  All activities were included in your fee. You didn’t pay extra for anything, and that, I thought, was the just a wonderful thing about Grinnell. All the lectures, all the concerts, all the games, all the dances, everything was included.
Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Margaret Lawrence Banning::  I remember Count Basie was the orchestra that played at our senior prom--
Virginia Lobell Rosen & Kathryn Vincent::  And we would get corsages or we would wear the flower in our hair and then the next morning, we’d all take pictures.
Kathryn Vincent & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  What book influenced you most in college?
Virginia Lobell Rosen::  I remember the most boring class I ever had, as well as the best. The most boring was Statistics and we had a teacher who said “and uh” after every few words, and to stay awake I remember marking in the front of my book a stroke with every “uh” and the front cover was covered.
Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  What was that book?
Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  Well, this was- I'll remember that, because he walked in one class day and said he had a size 46 tuxedo if anybody- any men was interested and then we popped right into Statistics, and that was the only time during that class that he- that whole semester- that he ever said anything other than strictly Statistics.
Kathryn Vincent & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  What was your favorite class or academic experience that you had at Grinnell?
Virginia Lobell Rosen & Kathryn Vincent::  My freshman year, I took French and Spanish—Intermediate French and Beginning Spanish—which was an accelerated program that they had used for the soldiers the previous year. And the Intermediate French, I had had four years of Latin and two years of French in high school, and the two years of French with a teacher who really didn’t teach us very much, so I got into Grinnell intermediate French, and it was a review for everybody else and it was brand new for me.
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  What memories or images do you have of the town of Grinnell? Did you guys get into the town very often when you were here?
Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  Ginny, I haven’t thought about the Raven ever! I’m so glad you said that.
Virginia Lobell Rosen::  Well, and we had an ice cream parlor. I don’t think they exist anymore.
Margaret Lawrence Banning & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  Was it Cunningham’s?
Virginia Lobell Rosen & Margaret Lawrence Banning & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  And there was a dairy on the edge of town, which just had wonderful, enormous ice cream concoctions.
Margaret Lawrence Banning & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  Wait, Mom, did your grandparents still live in town when you were going to school here?
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  How has Grinnell changed since you were a student?
Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  I miss the Rocket, the Rock Island Rocket. I think when they took that passenger train away that was a great loss to Iowa, ‘cause my poor daughter had to come here on the bus, and.. Everybody else just got on the Rocket and got to Grinnell.
Margaret Lawrence Banning & Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Kathryn Vincent::  And Mom, when you went here in that first year, you were a campus driver at the hospital?
Virginia Lobell Rosen & Kathryn Vincent::  There were various things that the war influenced; one was our Phys. Ed. Program. We took Phys. Ed. every day, and I think we were in the best shape we were ever in our entire lives that year. And we were encouraged to do other things like, oh, life-saving classes in the pool.
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  Anything about the campus that you remember fondly that isn’t here anymore?
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  Oh, was that the.. the gym- the first gym or Darby?
Kathryn Vincent & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  Was the pool in there?
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  Def- Oh, I already did that. Describe your favorite place on campus when you guys were here.
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  If you knew then what you know now, what would you have done differently during your time at Grinnell College?
Kathryn Vincent & Margaret Lawrence Banning & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  Where was the Library when you were here?
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  Did you have a favorite place in Carnegie to study, or move all around?
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  Did either of you meet your spouse or partner at Grinnell?
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  Describe student and campus life as you experienced it during your time at Grinnell.
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  If you were writing a history of Grinnell College, what would you include from your years here?
Margaret Lawrence Banning & Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Kathryn Vincent::  Mom, what do you think made Grinnell special?
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  What were your classes like? How small were they, and did you have men and women in the same classes?
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  What buildings would you have classes in?
Kathryn Vincent & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  So, you two have any wh- that filled the recitation hall? The audit- the big auditorium, did you have any classes in there?
Kathryn Vincent & Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  So it seems like you two have remained friends after Grinnell.
Virginia Lobell Rosen & Margaret Lawrence Banning::  And this friend and her daughter brought me to Grinnell this weekend. My husband was not in very good health and I thought I was going to cancel our trip here, and Phyllis said she and her daughter would like to drive me, so they came up from Indianapolis to Chicago and brought me here.
Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen::  No, it was a lovely ride because we could just relax and talk about things that we hadn’t talked about for a long time--
Virginia Lobell Rosen & Kathryn Vincent & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  It’s unbelievable that this is our 65th reunion.
Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Kathryn Vincent::  Ginny and I have seen each other almost invariably at the reunions, and some people have never shown up for a reunion. I have a daughter like that, that has never.. I think... What- did Kate go back once for reunion? I can’t believe that. I would just never want to miss a reunion.
Margaret Lawrence Banning & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence::  And there's only four in your class here.
Kathryn Vincent & Virginia Lobell Rosen & Phyllis Miller Lawrence & Margaret Lawrence Banning::  Well, that’s it for the questions that I have, but if you have any other stories you want to share or…
