Jackie Weissman::  Ms. Jackie Weissman. Actually, my full name is Jacqueline Lee Weissman, and I currently live in Portland, Oregon, and I am a member of the Grinnell College class of 1992.
Andrew Altschul & Jackie Weissman::  My name is Andrew Altschul, and I currently live in Portland, Oregon, and I am also a member of the Grinnell College class of 1992.
Andrew Altschul::  And back then, you know, I don’t know how they do things now, but usually there’d be like, a group of people from your floor that would head off to dinner or something together, and I kind of missed my group. But, I had a friend who I had known who was living in Main, which is where Quad was, and I thought "Oh," y'know, "Maybe she’ll still be there and I can like, find someone to go to dinner with." So, I went up to her room and y’know, was like, “Hey, you go to dinner yet?” and she said she was going to dinner with some people she had just met who were in a play with her, which was Jackie.
Jackie Weissman & Andrew Altschul::  Right, so yeah. This is- this person was Jen Mattern who’s a friend and class of ’92, as well, and I was in a play with her called Uncommon Women… I can’t- what’s the…
Jackie Weissman::  So, but- So then we, yeah, so we met and it turns out, well, Andrew’s also from New York, so Andrew and I just sort of hit it off 'cause we all met in Jen’s room, and I had transferred from SUNY at Albany which is a state university in New York and Andrew was sort of, like intrigued that somebody from there would come to Grinnell because they’re very different schools. They’re just really opposite, in a lot of ways. And, actually that’s why I came to Grinnell. Because I was looking for that.
Andrew Altschul & Jackie Weissman::  It’s also one of these state schools where, lots of people from New York went there. So, I knew a lot of people that went there. And it was one of those, y’know, “Where are you from? Who do you know?” and it turned out that…
Tamara Grbusic & Jackie Weissman & Andrew Altschul::  That's awesome.
Jackie Weissman & Andrew Altschul::  And a- I mean, also, there wasn’t- well, there were a group of people from New York that lived- that came to Grinnell but it was- I don’t know. You just- it was just like, we met, we were familiar with each other because we sort of had a short-hand because we were both from New York and we were in the middle of Iowa. And then, Andrew kept coming to my – I lived in Norris, in a single – and you would- kept coming to my room for... just random- just to say hi.
Andrew Altschul & Jackie Weissman & Tamara Grbusic::  But the weird is- so the weird thing though, and it is this sort of…
Andrew Altschul & Jackie Weissman::  But, it should be preserved, because the weird thing is, it’s not just that she saw pictures of me before, but-
Andrew Altschul & Tamara Grbusic & Jackie Weissman::  And my family’s bar is literally around the corner from her Aunt’s house.
Andrew Altschul & Jackie Weissman::  Then we got married.
Jackie Weissman & Andrew Altschul::  Yeah, yeah. We- I move- Andrew went to law school in University of Michigan and I moved there with him after graduation, for a year. Then I went to a film school in Chicago and Andrew and I would talk on the phone, pretty much every night. My phone bill was really high. And then we decided, not in a very romantic way, but that we should get married. And so we got married, and you moved to Chicago and that’s it.
Jackie Weissman::  Yeah. And then we decided, when we lived in Chicago, that it was.. what? We couldn’t afford to buy a house there and I had graduated from film school and Andrew was working like, in a big firm in Chicago and he was working a lot and we just didn’t want to live in Chicago anymore. Wanted to live somewhere more affordable, where we could be close to outdoors and enjoy the outdoors quickly, and in a more- well, anyway. We wanted to live in a liberal city and whatever. So, we looked at like, Utne Reader’s ten most livable cities- most liberal cities, actually, and we were choosing between Burlington, Vermont and Portland, Oregon. And then Andrew – what happened? We went to a wedding, of a friend of mine from High School, in Seattle and so we decided to just take that as a time to explore Portland.
Andrew Altschul & Jackie Weissman::  Now, when we moved out there we knew a couple people from Grinnell. Another couple that had gotten married, also who had met freshman year, who were friends of ours.
Andrew Altschul & Tamara Grbusic & Jackie Weissman::  But, ironically, now in Portland, sort of- and you weren’t there, you transferred sophomore year, but my freshman year, of the group I hung around with, four or five of us, there was probably a group of like six or seven of us, four or five of us live in Portland. Totally random, but…
Andrew Altschul & Jackie Weissman::  But we were the, y'know, first of the- sort of all the Grinnell friends to get married and we were still young. We were 25 when we got married, which I consider young.
Jackie Weissman & Andrew Altschul::  And what’s great now is that, well, all of our kids are here too and a lot- I haven’t met a lot of the kids before and it’s really sweet to see them all. They’re just like in a pack and they kinda just... it’s so-
Jackie Weissman & Andrew Altschul & Tamara Grbusic::  And then also that said, I mean, like, there have been Grinnellians who we didn’t know at Grinnell who we’ve since become friendly with, or, it was sort of like, like we’re saying. If you’re in a new place then you meet a Grinnell person, there’s kind of like a short-hand. Or, even, there’s like Grinnell people that I’ve met who graduated like, way ahead of me and I met them someplace and there is, like, kind of a short-hand with them and this really nice bond. And it’s just interesting ‘cause it’s like, I don’t… y’know, it’s sort of just a…
