Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  Want me to start?
Willa Collins & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  'Kay.
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  (Whispered: Say who you are.)
Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  And... when I-- When we were on campus-- I actually came to Grinnell because my brother was here, and I was very close with my brother, and my parents felt it would be a nice, safe thing to have me under my brother's care. And it was in the 70's, and, being a woman, I was much less able to be out on my own than my male brother.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  And there was a really cool vibe on campus at that time. Everybody was just honest, and nobody locked the-- their dorms, the Loggia was never locked, people's rooms were never locked, cars were never locked, and there was a sense of pride that we all had confidence that nobody would ever lose anything. And I don't remember one theft during my time on campus.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  And being in this-- that safe of an environment at that young time of life was a really great way to grow, because it-- It just-- it was a safe foundation that you-- you could just rise from.
Ann Lion::  And I remember that safety being really important to me as well. I remember riding a bike, and just leaving it at McNally's, and, you know, coming back a day later and getting it.
Ann Lion::  And I remember going to McNally's without any money or a checkbook, and I remember the cashier saying, "Well, here, just take a counter check. You can-- You have a bank account here?" "Yes" Clerk: "Just fill it out for what you need."
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  That's right, I remember when they had those counter checks! Where anybody could just grab something and write a check.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  But it was also a very intellectual place, and it was a place to be with really, really smart people and think about tough things, and form opinions... And it helped me feel better about myself, feeling like I was a peer with other smart people.
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  This morning we were talking... in sort of beginning to get ready, thinking about this session, and we were talking about teachers that were really... that had pushed us intellectually, and I was remembering Beth Noble.
Ann Lion::  And I would have nightmares about how hard she was and how I was not meeting her expectations, and I-- but I stuck with it. I was one of four Spanish majors that year. We all had worked very, very hard to make her pleased with us.
Ann Lion::  And by the fourth year, I finally understood what it was she was trying to get me to do, and I was telling Ellen and Ron earlier today that, of all the skills that I learned at Grinnell, this-- the ability to be analytical and ask questions, I got from Beth Noble.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  Y'know, I also think we had resources here that weren't available a lot of other places. My brother was big into science and he was really impressed that there was an electron microscope, and there was only, I think, five in the country at that time, and that was really impressive.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  And we also had a chance to have hands-on experience running a radio show! And that was a great learning experience too, having a regular show and coming up with programming week after week, and all that kinda thing.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  So--
Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  You know, we were also talking yesterday about how gorgeous the trees are on campus, and it feels like the same campus. I left because all the same trees are there, and we were really admiring how well people take care of the trees. And they really must know a lot in order to be able to, you know, groom them and make them so beautiful year after year.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  But, you know, after you leave a secluded place like this and this little bubble, and there's all this big thinking and and all this safety and all this intellect, and then you go out in the real world and to the chaos, and... you know, it stays and experience in your heart because you'll never have something like that again.
Ann Lion::  So, both of us have children now, and it's, as we go through this life outside of the bubble, the Grinnell experience is indelably tattooed on my soul, and...
Ann Lion::  My kids don't get it, my friends who aren't from here don't get it. They think it's odd. When I announced last week that I'm going to my 35th reunion, like, "Why would you do that?" It's like, why wouldn't I? This is a-- I've been lookin' forward to it.
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  In fact, let me tell the honest truth here: I gave up a meeting with Obama yesterday to be here.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  Her future son-in-law is.. has worked in the White House for five years, and he's leaving. And after you've been in the White House for a couple of years or whatever, if you have a good record, then Obama has like, a good-bye meeting with you, and she got to go! But didn't..
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  So, anything else you wanna say?
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion & Willa Collins::  We were the era where women didn't shave their legs or their armpits.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  Well, and then--
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  I was just looking at these questions: my favorite spot on campus was South Lounge up in the top area. You remember that?
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  I lived through Darby's loss, but the Forum... that little favorite nook was a place for peace.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  So we had-- Anna and I had a Friday night coffee house, where we would do a bake sale, and then we would find a musician, some kid, somebody on campus, who would play that night fo tips. And so we did it like, every Friday, and we got it as a sanctioned program through the school so they would like, pay for our ingredients, and then we would...
Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  And so... So, of course Ann, being in the public sector --I guess that's what you call it, right?-- wanted it all to be non-profit, and I, being more of a business person, wanted, of course, it should be for profit! And so we had this long-going argument that finally lead to a falling out after college, beca--
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  I went in the business world, and she went to the-- to save....
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  But that coffee house was fun.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  Right, but the whole idea for you to take a penny for this, all this work you put in--
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  And our dorm rooms: we-- I remember we had to make our dorm rooms ours, even though we weren't allowed to. Remember that?
Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  Ann also used to have an "Intensive Care" ward for plants, and everybody who had dead plants would bring her like, these sticks, you know? And she would keep it for three, four months or whatever, and hand back this lush plant. And she had an unbelievable touch! And she hangs up these boards, and all her intensive care unit was like-- [Laughter]
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  Oh! Do you remember though when the boards and-- with the bricks?
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  So I was lookin' at this question about clothing. I think we all wore hip-hugger bell-bottom jeans. You wore courds a lot.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  I don't really remember--
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  One of these reunions I came to, somebody said, "You changed your hair! You moved the part!" [Laughter]
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  Yep. I wish my brother was here this weekend..
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion & Willa Collins::  Alright, anything else you wanna say?
Willa Collins & Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  Hm. That about where you wanna leave it?
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  And, you know, it was none of this, you know, cattle prodding to get a huge number of students through in a short period of time. It was all about the personal attention and the richness of the indiviual's experience. And I think they really went out of their way to make sure that everybody got what they needed out of school.
Ann Lion & Willa Collins & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  I remember all those tutorials --I don't know if they still do tutorials...
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins::  Do they still do a progressive dinner? In the spring where the professors all have like.... you go to a different professor's house for like, appetizers, and--
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins & Ann Lion::  I think it was a fundraiser. I think you signed up for it, and..
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  I remember Saturday steak night. Remember it?
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  So we figured that out after a while, and we'd go--
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins::  Do you guys use the Main Dining Hall still in....? Is the Cowles Dining Hall still there?
Willa Collins & Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  Like, we had Spring Waltz in there.
Willa Collins & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  Well, there was a toga party in Loose first.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins::  The Loose-- Okay, the Loose Hall Ball would be... what-- you had to come dressed as your most secret fantasy. And I came as a pregnant bride. [Laughter]
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  But, yeah, that was great. That was crazy, and it was in... in was in the Loose lounge.
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins::  I also remember kicking the... the screens out every spring.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins::  So I gotta tell you somethin' really stupid, two really stupid things.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins::  And I thought--
Willa Collins & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  And people, you know, if they have somewhere on their person, you'll see people who have their card in their shirt pocket, just making little, strange gestures at the sensors. [Laughter]
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins::  And then the other-- The second--
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  And she tells me:
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  And so, then we saw the sign that said, "Come see the new Loggia."
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins & Ann Lion::  Yeah, so my references are antiquated.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins & Ann Lion::  Are they--
Willa Collins & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  Yep, yep!
Willa Collins & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  But East Campus is very new and very shiny, and people are afraid to mess it up, or, you know, there's not really much that happend there.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins & Ann Lion::  So, is it the-- is it the least--
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins::  Are there bathrooms in each room? Or is it still a hall bathroom?
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins::  Oh, that's another thing, that is-- was from our era. Our co-- our era was new for being co-ed dorms.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Willa Collins & Ann Lion::  It was no big deal to me because I had brothers...
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  Yeah.
Willa Collins & Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  Were your dorms fully co-ed? Like, each floor was--
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion & Willa Collins::  And-- and, I think all the dorms were that-- There was one dorm that was men, Langan, and then one that was women, which is-- what's the one next to Langan on the other side of the tower?
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion & Willa Collins::  So--
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion & Willa Collins::  I mean, we lived like brothers and sisters.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  And water fights!
Ann Lion & Ellen Liebman Glatstein::  You were part of it, where I was-- Lucy Rosendahl..
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  She was never in her room!
Ann Lion::  And they'd like, leave little notes on her wall, or on her door, and I lived exactly in front of her, so, you know.. I don't know why I was so gullible, but it took me the whole semester 'til you finally told me that you'd all made her up! [Laughter]
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion::  That was pretty funny.
Ellen Liebman Glatstein & Ann Lion & Willa Collins::  Okay, are you done?
