Courtney Sherwood:: My name is Courtney Sherwood, I currently live in Portland, Oregon, and I’m a member of the Grinnell College Class of 2000.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Alright, great. So, first question is: Why did you come to Grinnell?
Courtney Sherwood:: I... My senior year of high school, I was... Basically my parents said: you can do anything, you can go to college, you don’t have to go to college, it’s up to you to explore. And so I got a book at the bookstore of like 300 best colleges in America, and 
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: I read that same book.
Courtney Sherwood:: Yeah. I think I had like 20 or 30 different colleges that I was interested in. And then I had various criteria, like co-ed, not huge, somewhere where it actually snowed, ’cause I like cold weather.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Where are you from?
Courtney Seltzer-Schultz:: I'm from the D.C area.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Okay. You might have mentioned that.
Courtney Sherwood:: My parents were living in Australia, although I was living in northern Virginia with my grandparents, and it was like, visiting them in Australia just sort of confirmed the fact that I didn’t want to be anywhere that was exclusively hot without cold. 
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Okay. Interesting.
Courtney Sherwood:: And then after I took the SAT (so it might have been even before my senior year), Grinnell started sending me stuff. And I mean, I was getting flyers from Macalester, which is north of Grinnell, and all of their pictures were of sunny days and people in shorts, and then I’m getting this stuff from Grinnell, and there were pictures of snow! And I was just like, yeah! Duh! This is like honesty!
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: That's so funny. Most people don't want to come here because of the weather.
Courtney Sherwood:: And then I visited. And I was such a weird high school kid. I went through this disco phase in high school, where I was wearing a lot of polyester and just being into disco. And so I visited, and I find out that there’s a party called Disco, and I find out there’s a party called Alice, and my best friend was going through her own weird Alice in Wonderland phase— and I’m like, oh my gosh! And I got to sit in on a Calculus class, and I was taking Calculus, and I was like, oh my gosh, I’m at this intellectual level, I can handle it. So it just seemed like it fit my size criteria, it fit the weather criteria, they wanted me, which was really nice.
Courtney Sherwood:: When I interviewed, the interviewer remembered my essay and asked me personal questions— which nobody else did.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Yeah. They actually make it personal, yeah. That's really cool.
Courtney Sherwood:: Yeah.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Do you remember your first memory of the campus or when you first arrived for NS-? You had NSO, right?
Courtney Sherwood:: Yeah, how do you know that? Oh, New Student Orientation! I was thinking of NSP, which is now GSP. I was in the New Science Project, actually. Yeah, so I don’t remember my very first moment. I know my dad came with me and we had a bunch of stuff. And like the first memory I have, but I’d already been there for a while, like at least half a day— it was getting late, and I go out in the hall and somebody had put candies- a string of candies down the hall that led to a door that said "Follow the candy to new friends", and I did!
Courtney Sherwood:: I followed the candy, I went in, and I’m still friends with a bunch of the people that had followed the candy. Some of them are here at this Reunion today.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Wow. That's so- that's funny.
Courtney Sherwood:: Yeah.
Erica Seltzer-Sherwood:: Was there a professor, student, or staff member—or a couple of them—who had particularly strong influence on you?
Courtney Sherwood:: Jo Calhoun, who doesn’t work here anymore, was in the administration—I think maybe academic advising—and I had a personal crisis where I ended up leaving midway through a semester because I wasn’t coping very well, and she was just amazing. My adviser wasn’t available, because of her own issues, to help me, and Jo did everything that an adviser does, and then everything a counselor does, and then everything a caring family member does. I mean, she was thinking of me, she knew I worked at the "S & B" and that it was a Thursday and that I would probably be there. 
Courtney Sherwood:: And I just remember her calling, and saying, “Hey how’s it going?” And I did have to leave, and then come back, but she made a huge difference at that moment in my life. 
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: This is kind of a big question, but what would you say were your best memories of your time at Grinnell?
Courtney Sherwood:: My best memories were probably working at the "S &amp B;", staying up way too late, obsessing over every little detail with other people who were equally crazy. And 50% of what we wanted was to get out the best possible paper, but 50% of what we wanted was to be just crazy, and have fun and do ridiculous things and not worry about anything else, so...
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Were you an editor too, or a writer?
Courtney Sherwood:: Yeah, I was a writer for two weeks my first year, and then I became news editor for two years- 
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Oh, wow.
Courtney Sherwood:: and then I was editor-in-chief for two years.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Oh my gosh. So, that's crazy. Wow.
Courtney Sherwood:: And I mean, it’s what I do for a living, I’m still a journalist.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Oh really. In Washington?
Courtney Sherwood:: In Portland.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Oh, Portland. Yeah, sorry.
Courtney Sherwood:: Right now I’m working at the Portland Business Journal, but I am hoping to go and start being an editor at a suburban daily newspaper outside the city pretty soon. 
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Oh, wow. That's really cool. What do you kind of remember most about the town of Grinnell?
Courtney Sherwood:: Summer after my freshman year I had a physics internship and I remember I lived in a house in town and I just remember the farmer’s market—discovering kettle corn, which you can buy in groceries stores now—but nobody knew what it was, nobody had ever heard of it and there was this couple that had a ginormous kettle. They cooked it and sold it and it was so good. I don’t know... I don’t like being extremely hot, but yet there’s something kind of fun about it at the same time—just being so hot that you can’t even sleep. You’re wearing nothing under a sheet with a fan blowing at you—in retrospect it’s a lot nicer than it is in the moment.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: How has Grinnell changed since you graduated?
Courtney Sherwood:: I’ve been thinking about that quite a lot, and I feel like there’s the really obvious stuff that everyone can harp on. There’s the new buildings. Oh gosh, kids have laptops instead of going to a lab or having desktop PCs. Oh, they have cell phones. But I mean, that’s just trappings—that’s external stuff. I think in a lot of ways the school is very much the same, and I don’t mean that in a bad way. I think the same learning is happening and the same conversation and there are still intellectually curious people coming here to figure out who they are, not always succeeding. And I think that’s a good thing.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: So, kind of along that line, do you feel like the students are pretty similar, or do you feel a difference at all in the student body?
Courtney Sherwood:: I’ve interacted with like five volunteers for the Alumni Weekend, but I think that there are a lot of similarities—the national and international issues that people are protesting are different, but I was here when Bill Clinton was reelected, and now this current group is here when Barack Obama was elected. The cultural surroundings are different: Bill Clinton had already been president for four years, he was like, considered this moderate, and it was like so disgusting in that he wasn’t liberal enough, versus Barack Obama,
Courtney Sherwood:: who in some ways, is probably politically fairly similar. But compared to Bush, to this campus, this hallelujah thing, I don’t even know if that’s really an answer to the question... But I think there’s still, you know, there’s students who are passionate about politics, there’s students who really don’t give a damn about the mechanics of politics but care deeply about the world and either want to make it better by helping individuals, or by changing institutions, and I don’t think that’s changed. And I think even though the circumstances of what they’re protesting are different, partly it’s ’cause they’ve made a difference. I mean, the sweatshop movement was huge when I was here. I’ve read that the national campus sweatshop movement
Courtney Sherwood:: has changed how clothes are manufactured around the world. That’s freaking awesome! So now I don’t know if it still even exists here. There’s other problems that students can focus on.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Did you like the, kind of, social and political culture at Grinnell when you were here?
Courtney Sherwood:: I would say that I was not personally engaged in it for the most part. I did do some volunteering, like through Alt Break. I was a witness to a lot of protests, more than a participant. But I really appreciated the fact that it was there. Sometimes, you know, I couldn’t get as passionate as the people who were leading an effort to make change, but I still really value the fact that they were doing that. And I think I value it even more now because I’m realizing it’s so hard to see if it’s going to matter, or if it’s going to make a difference,
Courtney Sherwood:: if just because someone says something rude or is willing to get arrested, but yeah, it does make a difference.
Erica Seltzer-Schultz:: Do you have a favorite class or academic experience you remember from Grinnell? What was your major?
Courtney Sherwood:: I was an English major. I sort of was torn originally between English, Math, and Computer Science, and ultimately stuck with English because I wanted to graduate in four years and I lost a semester from my transcript by leaving in the middle of a term. So it was like, well, this is the one I have the most credits in. And, you know, I went into journalism so I don’t really think it matters what you major in, in journalism. But, favorite experience... I mean, I had a lot of fun talking about books in classrooms. I remember having to do a big project on Michael Ondaatje, the author of
