Paul Bendich::  Hi, my name is Paul Bendich, class of 2001, and I currently live in Durham, North Carolina.
Chelsie Salvatera::  OK, so why did you come to Grinnell College and what is your first memory?
Paul Bendich::  Well, so I had an interesting high school experience where I did not complete high school, and so I was trying to get into colleges with good SAT scores and some very good grades and some very bad grades and a lack of a diploma. So Grinnell was one of two or three schools that admitted me. It was sort of weird. It was all kind of funky, good, liberal arts colleges that admitted me and then sort of standard, Ivys and state schools and things like that wouldn’t. And then Grinnell gave me a lot of money, which distinguished it from the others, and honestly that’s why I was. I really liked it on the visit, but the money was definitely very nice. I guess my first memory of the campus was mainly that, when I came to visit for the first time I was supposed to land at about 10PM in Des Moines and it was a snowstorm and we landed at about 2 in the morning, and the student volunteer admissions freshman or whatever who was supposed to pick me up was still there, and I thought that was very cool.
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  Was there a professor, student or staff member who was a particularly strong influence on your life?
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  Can Beauty Save the World? Want to tell a little bit about it?
Paul Bendich::  Who else? I guess, I had Victoria Brown for Immigration History. Yeah, and she was, I mean, yeah, 'cause I talked my way into that as a freshman. I was always very proud of myself for doing that, and yeah, she was just great. And honestly, Ira Strauber, who taught- he might’ve retired already. He was Political Theory in the Political Science department. He was very very different from all the other... He was just very good as a counterpoint to all my other professors ‘cause he was, I don’t know if he was actually conservative but he actually played being conservative, and he was just very sort of rigorous and analytical in the way he talked and didn’t wanna know about any of your feelings. Just wanted to know about what you thought, this line of- Yeah, I know. Wanted to know what you thought this line of Plato said, and that was very cool.
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  What are your best memories of your time at Grinnell College?
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  What did your dorm room look like? I guess the first one, 'cause all- y'know.
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  Kinda like that. What kind of clothes did you wear every day as a Grinnell student, and on special occasions?
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  OK, Grinnellian. What book influenced you most in college, if you can recall?
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  Just making sure. OK, what memories or images do you have of the town of Grinnell?
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  How has Grinnell changed since you were a student?
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  Describe something that is no longer available on campus but was meaningful to you: buildings, programs, activities?
Chelsie Salvatera::  Okay. Describe your favorite academic experience or class at Grinnell.
Paul Bendich::  I guess there’s two. There’s a couple of ‘em, actually. Freshman tutorial was a really really big deal to me. Like that was just, I don’t know, opening up as an intellectual, which sounds pompous and pretentious but that’s definitely what it was. Sort of, learning how to talk in a way that made sense. I took a Topology course junior year with Professor Gene Herman, which was sort of, it was the old Moore method, so you basically have five students and you... There wasn’t a textbook or lectures. They basically gave you a whole bunch of materials that were true about the subject and you kind of had to prove them in front of everyone as you went along, which was very, a very Grinnell way to teach the subject but also, I went to grad school in math and when I went to grad school I sort of felt I owned that material a lot more than people who had it otherwise. Oh, and also the Tocqueville seminar with Don Smith that I took senior year. That was, I think he’s senior faculty now or something.
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  What was his name?
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  Describe your favorite place on campus.
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  OK, lots of studying in Burling?
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  When I go there I know I’m gonna study. OK, if you knew then what you know now, what would you have done differently during your time at Grinnell?
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  Okay. So I know you met your spouse at Grinnell. That's good. How would you compare the students of today with your classmates? I guess you don’t really know the students of today.
Chelsie Salvatera::  Describe student and campus life as you experienced it during your time at Grinnell.
Paul Bendich::  That’s, mainly just good, like, it was kind of in a- it sort of really was a bubble, but in a sort of good way. It just, I don’t know, it didn’t feel very socially stratified the way lots of university experiences are. Like I’m now- I’m faculty at Duke and it’s a very different, y’know... It seemed like almost everyone was sort of welcome in large portions of the social space, and there wasn’t, I don’t know. There wasn’t that much devoted to making people feel bad about themselves, which seems to be the favorite sport in a lot of places. That was, people were caring and more, y’know it was good. The general professor attitude... I’m very much a patriot for liberal arts colleges. The professors interacting with students and seeing that as their main job and so forth. That’s good.
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  If you were writing a history of Grinnell College, what would you include from your four years here?
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  Did you have anything else to say, any additional comments? Talk about a crazy time, y'know, or...? Something that was like, 'Oh...'
Paul Bendich::  I think it struggled at lot, with like... y'know, at any other school like this, not being all rich kids and all white kids and so on and so forth, but I think it did a better job of that in a lot of other places, and, I don’t know. I always felt that there were at least enough people here who saw that as a goal, that they were always gonna keep giving financial aid and so on and so forth, and that was valuable.
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  Does Grinnell still feel like home to you, or...?
Chelsie Salvatera & Paul Bendich::  Well I’m glad you could come back here again.
