Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  My name is Maria Elizabeth Walinski-Peterson. Walinkski-Peterson's hyphenated so when I was at Grinnell my last name was just Walinski. Graduated in the year 1992, and I currently live and will probably die in the city of Omaha, Nebraska.
Chelsie Salvatera::  OK, so why did you come to Grinnell College? What is your first memory of the campus?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  I have discovered, through speaking to other alum, that my story is not unique. There seems to be a homing beacon that is inborn in certain people, globally, and they don’t know it until something turns that homing beacon on and it says, “Go to Grinnell,” and they don’t really know why. Almost every person I’ve spoken to who has an affinity for this place, not all Grinnell graduates do, they’ve had a similar experience where something just said, “I need to be there,” and in some cases physically set foot on something on this campus. In my case, the parking lot down by Mears Cottage, and got out of the car, put my foot down and said, “I’m home,” and I don’t know why. This is the place. So, maybe Grinnell chooses us in some cosmic sense.
Chelsie Salvatera::  OK, I like that. So during your time at Grinnell was there a professor, student or staff member who had a particularly strong influence on your life?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Absolutely. The three professors, all three are still here I’m pleased to say: Kent McClelland and Chris Hunter in the Sociology department were surrogate daddies to me, especially through some very rough times in my personal life. Chris Hunter was just a, a solid human being, not just an intellectual powerhouse but a good man. The third is John Rommereim, who – director of the Grinnell Singers – gave this freshman girl a chance to sing again, that I didn’t know that I was really qualified to do. So spending time with Grinnell Singers and the other vocal experiences here, that’s, that’s my heart. I’m grateful to them.
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  How long were you in Grinnell Singers?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Yeah, um, best memories. My husband knows that somewhere on the Harris Center campus is a half-consumed, maybe now evaporated bottle of peach schnapps that, in our drunken-ness, we thought it was a good idea to bury it and come back for it later. Driving my 1977 LTD across North Campus, which was entirely illegal, in the middle of the night.
Chelsie Salvatera::  Under the influence. Driving around campus?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  No, we were not drunk. We just were, we were seniors and we had been living in the fishbowl for four years and we decided to disobey a rule, disobey a rule. Like, “We’re gonna drive across this field,” partly because camping- or, campus and parking don’t go well together and that 1977 LTD is huge. So, couldn’t find a place to park, couldn’t manipulate this thing around this campus, so I took a route that was really not available to me.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Gonna, this is the one that’s gonna make the cut: my best friend and I were making a snowman on Central Campus on a very snowy, must’ve been a February morning, and in the politically correct atmosphere that is Grinnell somebody said, “Oh, you’re making a snow person.” And the same senioritis kicked in again, similar to the driving around the car, and we said, "We’re gonna make sure that they know it’s a snowman," and it turned out to be an anatomically correct, male, masturbating snowman, which was really quite a feat to get snow to go vertically. That was really good. Managed- took some spray bottles, and he was on campus for a little while. He didn’t melt right away, which I’m kind of glad about.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  One other extraordinary memory is also a cold one when, and this was under the influence. The loggias get covered in ice, and South Campus loggias, as you know, have an angle to them. One should not climb out of a second floor loggia window drunk, in the middle of winter when it’s covered in ice and snow. Not a good idea. The fact that nobody fell off and nobody was killed, maybe there are guardian angels, even in Grinnell.
Chelsie Salvatera::  Wow, OK. So next question is about your dorm. I don’t know which one you wanna talk about? I don't- which one comes fi-
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  My freshman year was Smith Annex, which, is it still a thing? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. That was a cautious- Maria, boy, I'm not really sure where I’m going. I think that might be safer. OK, yeah, eeee, bad idea. (Cat noise) Cat nails, bad, not good. So, it was, I had a good experience but co-ed living is really, that’s the nature of the world, why would we segregate ourselves? So then my other three years were split between James and Haines.
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  So you were a South Campuser.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Do you know, I still have most of them. It had to be black, or olive green. Oh, had my black leather biker’s jacket, anything that made me feel that I was cool. I wasn’t cool. I wasn’t, but it was.  The basis of any wardrobe was black, and preferably something that people would look at and say, “Oh yeah, you’re a Grinnellian,” whatever I perceived that to be, but I don’t have, I just remember a lot of black and green.
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  OK. How about on those special occasions, those Friday, Saturday nights?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Because spring- fall waltz or winter waltz, ball, depending on what it was, and spring waltz, all of a sudden women had razors and nail polish and the high maintenance phenomenon that didn’t really exist otherwise. What a joy. It was just like little kids playing dress-up with feather boas and shoes that were too big and uncomfortable and fan- We really enjoyed the opportunity to go full high-maintenance.
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Waltz was the biggest event of the year?
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  OK. So did you guys have Waltz in the Quad, or was it..?
Chelsie Salvatera::  Okay. Awesome, awesome. Next question: what book influenced you most in college?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  I didn’t read a single one. I have no recollection of ever reading any book in college, and that’s God’s own truth. I must have, and I still, I think that it was a couple of reference books that I carry around with me that still have the Grinnell College bookstore sticker on the back, but it wasn’t until grad school that I actually can recall a book really changing my world paradigm. So, and many people have said, “How did you get through Grinnell? How did you get through grad school. How can you even have any kind of IQ at all if you don’t read?” I have no idea. I have excellent receptive language skills. I can hear things and I will absorb, but I’m not a reader.
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  What was your major?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  State Street, The Bar. McNally’s, Cunningham’s. But I didn’t, well, I didn’t spend a lot of time in town. I never lived off-campus. I always lived in the dorms. So, there was no animosity there but the town was the way that you got to Grinnell and it was a little bit of a buffer zone between us and the cornfields. So, just sort of, it’s there but I was never engaged in it. I’ve been more engaged in it as an adult now, realizing, seeing, looking, again, outside of the fishbowl.
Chelsie Salvatera::  How has Grinnell changed since you were a student?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Obviously there’s physical changes on the campus, but I think the culture of this place is almost exactly the same with the one exception, and that is the invasion of communication technology. The idea that we- the Internet really did not exist in usable form. We went and checked our dreams mail, which is a precursor to email. That was a big deal, that you’d sit in class, and I teach high school so I’m very sensitive to, what we recently heard as a noise factor that’s invaded life. That you will never know life other than that.That's not a judgment on you but you will never know life without that noise level unless you make a conscious effort to disconnect yourself, to pull yourself off the grid.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  So, Grinnell I think has always been, even though we’re this fishbowl analogy that I’m using, we’re still a fishbowl inside of a much larger culture that always has reflected the culture. The 50s were still the 50s at Grinnell. The 60s were still the 60s at Grinnell. The 1860s were still the 1860s at Grinnell. So, the 2000 and followings are still the 2000, and that, the outside world, that constant electric, as I’m listening to the fluorescent lights hum, is symbolic of that. It makes me a little sad just to see that that’s happened to our culture as a whole, and that this place is not immune to it. But that’s just the way. That’s the reality. As an adult you realize, yeah, we’re really not that isolated from the outside world.
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Describe something that is no longer available on campus, but that was meaningful to you, for example buildings, programs, activities.
Glenn Peterson::  The graduation pranks you mentioned.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  OK, that’s a good point. You don’t know about that, probably. They don’t do this anymore. Historically, you did not pay for your diploma, or you didn’t pay for college until you got your diploma. You sort of racked up this bill and at the end, at commencement, you gave them the money and they gave you a diploma. That has metamorphosized over the years that there became a time, and I couldn't tell you the time frame, that it was symbolic. That graduates would come across, and there was a jar or some kind of container, people would drop in a penny as sort of homage to that tradition.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  And then Grinnell tweaked it a little bit again and there was this tradition that I knew about, in the mid-to-late eighties and in the early nineties, when you did something that was your five seconds of fame, coming across that stage, something silly or fun. The ultimate Frisbee guys and gals would always throw a Frisbee out at the audience. Several graduations there was a Spiderman and I still don’t know who he was. Some Grinnellian that would climb up across the Bookstore.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  I mean that was part of, people, lots of ‘em had a fake arm. You had like a mannequin’s arm underneath your robe and then the president would go to shake your hand and the president would wind up holding this fake arm. Somebody drove their motorcycle. I took my Elmo, my little Elmo doll that I was kinda famous for. Had a little mortarboard and a little gown on. Y’know, waved to my mommy and daddy, and had a little matching corsage, and evidently, we were talking to President Drake last night, but that’s gone. So-
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  We can bring that back.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  I collect Elmo, and he became a character on Sesame Street the year that I graduated from high school and so it is a Grinnell connection because my first real care package that came from my mommy was my first stuffed Elmo, so that would’ve been the fall of 1988. Thus began a collection of, I mean he represents all that’s good about humanity. Curiosity and love and affection, I mean how can you not? So he’s my little friend I carry, well, at 41 maybe the novelty wore off a little bit.
Chelsie Salvatera::  Okay. So, describe your favorite academic experience or class at Grinnell.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  There was a woman here, Thorson-Smith, hyphenated Thorson-Smith, and she was the wife of a minister, so she really wasn’t here for herself, she was here with her husband and I don’t remember what his parish was in town. But, she was a Sociology prof and her particularly interests were human sexuality. So, she taught all of the really cool special topics classes . Human Sexuality, Gender Issues, with a gentility quite antithetical of Kesho Scott. Kesho Scott will push you and push you and push you until cry, and Thorson-Smith was quite the opposite.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  She sort of pulled, and let you speak for yourself, but really really changed my thoughts about human sexuality overall, and really, as Hunter and McClelland and Rommereim were patriarchal role models she was very much a matriarchal role model in that she had this gentle way about her with issues that are pretty poignant, pretty powerful. So, several special topics that I took with her about human sexuality.. This, I’m getting college credit for this? This is fantastic. Here’s a chance to really explore who you are and who we are as human beings, and I’m gonna get a degree outta this? I love it. How else could you analyze George Michael? And in the eighties that was a deal. And write a paper about that? Only at Grinnell.
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Only at Grinnell, always. Always lie.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Because it, as Darby, had that sense of history and weight and inertia and "I’m here and I’m the last of the ages and you cannot move me." That has still a Christian heritage to it, which is important to me. It was a safe spot on campus that represented, in all of the change, in all of these explorations, "who am I? Who is the world?" Push the envelope. Ask the questions. Herrick Chapel is a rock and that they’ve restored the organ is fantastic. They may have kept the heart of the heart, that’s, I’m very moved to be in there. It’s very emotional for me.
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Did you guys get to hear the organist?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  I might’ve read a book! I’m sure that I did. I’m sure that I did. I think I would have probably developed my social circle a little bit more, gone out and sought out a few more people. But that’s not my- that would’ve been- that’s really against my nature to do so. I’m much more comfortable with a smaller group of people. Quantity, not so much quality, yes?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Maybe. I think that if I could’ve forced myself to develop a habit, at 20-something, maybe at 40-something I wouldn’t have the trajectory of remaining more... reserved to myself, but I don’t really have a whole lot of regrets. I’m very proud and happy to be able to say that that’s generally true. Might be little things, but nothing...
Chelsie Salvatera::  Do you think you think you were so caught up like, in the academia life that you didn’t have time to socialize, or just-?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  No, I did socialize, absolutely! I’m not - make no mistake - Harris and State Street- but it was just with a pretty defined group of people. I just wasn’t a floater, I guess. One of the new terms for adolescent cultures, floaters: people who can move from clique to clique to clique.
Chelsie Salvatera::  That was important though, to have a study group.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Yeah. Now that being said, I don’t really have that group of friends anymore. I don’t any- I have connections with, maybe two graduates and- that I've maintained. And that’s OK, I’m- the institution to me is maybe more important to me than some of the individual people.
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson & Glenn Peterson::  So you met your spouse elsewhere?
Chelsie Salvatera::  Okay. How would you compare the students of today with your classmates?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Of course, because of that communication technology, you folks have access to things, quantity and quality and speed, in ways that are amazing to me. But, I do wonder, and some of this is a projection of my own teaching as I see children who are younger than you in high school and very talented but much younger, your ability to discern what is good from what is not so good or what is life-affirming from what is not life-affirming, because you have so many choices and so much opt – so many options and that’s a constant indignation, I fear for you that, how can you possibly find some ground in that?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  I mean, it was hard for us. Here we were exploring the world and our world was considerably smaller, and we thought we had it all. Your world is- your world has no boundaries. Time and space mean very little to you. I mean you just don’t think about them in the same way. And I- How do you navigate through that? Where’s your compass? And that’s not an accusation, I just, I’m bewildered. How do you get through it? How do you get through it, and what’s gonna be the generation- how will your children, how will they? ‘Cause it’s only gonna expand, and yeah. The Romans maybe taught us a little lesson about getting too big for yourself and it’s gonna collapse on- Is that- that’s a possibility! I’m sorry, that’s kind of a downer! Keep the faith!
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Last question.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson & Chelsie Salvatera::  And, then they put on their polyester suits and... in homage to the generation prior to ours. That was, that non-political correctness was such a joy. Just, you don’t have to tiptoe.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Diane Elizabeth May Roberts and Maria Walinski-Peterson. Sometime around February 1992. There’s a place not so far that you likely may know, where they disc in the sun and they brisk in the snow. Now and again if you look there and here, some very strange creatures begin to appear. Dingleboofs guzzle and wiggle their rumpies, not like those snookie old geekus-snarf grumpies. Geekus-snarfs grumble and I can’t remember the rest of that line, but it gives you a sense of what we had done to try to capture the sense of this, the dichotomies that exist in our own little 'Camp Grinnell'. Dr. Seuss world.
Chelsie Salvatera & Maria Walinkski-Peterson & Glenn Peterson::  Wow, amazing. OK- Oh, one quick question for both of you guys. So I noticed your shoes yesterday, those Converse shoes. I think you had the high tops and you had the-?
Chelsie Salvatera & Glenn Peterson & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  Where did you guys get those from?
Chelsie Salvatera & Glenn Peterson & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  What do they cost?
Maria Walinkski-Peterson & Chelsie Salvatera & Glenn Peterson::  And we had, those were our- we got married in November, so our colors were red and purple so we had several people who wore-
Maria Walinkski-Peterson & Chelsie Salvatera::  Is that not a common denominator of Grinnellians, that they have some kind of creativity?
Glenn Peterson & Maria Walinkski-Peterson::  You missed our "Free Snooki" t-shirts then. Chelsie: I did.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson & Chelsie Salvatera::  I try not to watch much Jersey Shore.
Maria Walinkski-Peterson & Chelsie Salvatera::  I think that this oral history project is a little bit of that, "Let’s find some continuity. Let’s get something written down and rock solid." so that, it’s OK for things to change but don’t forget where you come from.
