Alenka Figa::  Okay. Alrighty.
Carol Edkins::  My name is Carol Edkins. I currently live in New York City, New York and I am a member of the Grinnell class of 1973, although I actually graduated in the fall of 1972. One of my first memories of campus, being- and I grew up in New York City. Do you mind if I talk directly to you? It’s easier to talk to an audience than a microphone. But, it’s a story that tells a lot about Grinnell and about me and about New York City. So, New York City, when you walk around the streets, you don’t go “Hi” to strangers. You just kind of keep on walking. You might not even look them in the eye.
Carol Edkins::  So, I get to Grinnell in the fall of 1969. I’d never been here. I hadn’t visited the school before I came, and I’m walking across campus and still, must be very early on because there weren’t a whole lot of people around. Someone walks by me and says, “Hello.” I’m going, “I don’t know this person.” I honestly can’t remember whether I had the courtesy, the common courtesy to say “Hello” back. I pray I did, but I don’t know if I did. But I was like, “Wow. Someone said hello to me.” And thus, you know, there’s the difference between a big city and a small town, and feeling comfortable enough that you can just greet strangers with a "Hello"! So that was one of my very first memories of Grinnell. In hindsight, I think that’s very good for kids who grew up in urban environments to come to a place like Grinnell, even though it’s kind of hard to get here. Still is.
Carol Edkins::  [Coughs] Excuse me. I think some of my best memories of Grinnell, at the time, had nothing to do with classroom. In fact, I can’t vividly reme- I took a lot of independent studies, but we had so much great music. So many amazing people came to Grinnell as musicians and performers. Pete Seeger came, like our first semester. Thank God, Pete Seeger’s still alive. And it was in the old Darby Gym, which has been torn down, and it was this amazing concert, and y’know I was three feet away from him.
Carol Edkins & Alenka Figa::  B.B. King came. It was an amazing concert, y’know, and I had had no exposure to any of these folks, so there were lots of people very- now- Doc Watson who just died last week. He was a famous bluegrass player. I don’t know if you’ve heard of him. So, Doc Watson and B.B. King and Pete Seeger; I think The Band came and I think- I don’t, I’ll have to ask some classmates- I think even Bruce Springsteen. Of course this was before he was super famous.
Carol Edkins::  So that, to me, still, is one of the greatest legacies of being here and the fact that you’re.. It’s not like you run off campus and go someplace else. This, your life, your social life is fully here and it’s great. It’s just, it was great and I hope that continues. We had people, Peter Keepnews, was involved in doing the music, Ed Levine, was involved in doing the music. Ed Levine, both actually, are New Yorkers. They’re back in New York. Peter Keepnews’ father was a very famous musician, jazz musician, and Ed Levine went back to New York and did stuff with music as well and now he has a blog about food called Serious Eats.
Carol Edkins::  In 40 years of course Grinnell’s changed a lot, I think, in some ways in terms of new buildings and I think from what we’re gathering in terms of the whole gay and lesbian movement. There’s so much more. I mean, it's a 180 degree change from when I was here. I spent the first 20 years after college involved with women. I am now married actually to another Grinnellian, a male, who I met at my 25th Reunion here, so... But that whole aspect of Grinnell is really different.
Alenka Figa & Carol Edkins::  Could you elaborate on what it was like for, I guess for the queer community here in the 1970s?
Carol Edkins & Alenka Figa::  So, that- from that point of view it’s a radically different place. And of course you have a gay president and that’s pretty fabulous. Married, with- two kids? He has two kids?
Carol Edkins & Alenka Figa::  I spent a lot of time at Burling Library, so that was probably my favorite place, and the Loun… the, Forum, which appears, y'know, past- its on its final days, apparently. So I spent- that’s where my favorite place is. My husband, who as I said, we met at our 25th Reunion in 1998, he was a Classics major so he just went upstairs to the 3rd floor. He was trying to find the room where he spent all his time ‘cause he spent all his time studying Greek and Latin.
Carol Edkins & Alenka Figa::  I read a lot- 'what book influenced you?' I’m babbling on a lot here. I read a lot of Faulkner, and I did some independent studies on him so- and I was an American Lit major. I actually went on to get my PhD in American Lit.
Carol Edkins & Alenka Figa::  Actually from then on, I lived alone, spent a semester in Ireland.
Carol Edkins & Alenka Figa::  Unless you have other questions.
Alenka Figa & Carol Edkins::  What is the Longhorn?
Alenka Figa & Carol Edkins::  Yeah. I guess, the only other question that I would have is that I talked to a lot of ‘68 alums who talked about being kind of the beginning of this like, change in Grinnell culture, and talk about the early 70s as being the end of that transition period.
Carol Edkins & Alenka Figa::  But, yeah it was a very- It was a huge radical shift in what we, and this- I think, again, I look back, I guess the College was very open to it, the administration. One thing that we were also… started, tried to do is like, no grades. Classes would have no grades. I don’t think that lasted very long.
Alenka Figa & Carol Edkins::  Was that like, I don’t know- Was that a more recent development, or..? How did you want to change majors, I guess- what was the activism that surrounded that?
