::  My name is Mariana Alwell. I currently live in Boulder Creek, California, and I’m a member of Grinnell Class of ’68.
::  I came to Grinnell from California because Grinnell sent me this welcoming letter encouraging me to apply and I applied for early admission and by Christmas I knew I was accepted and had a full-tuition scholarship. I knew I couldn’t afford to go other places, so I came to Grinnell. The decision wasn’t made in the way I would recommend kids decide what college they go to, but, it really was the right place for me. I was young and it gave me a chance to grow up in a relatively protected environment but still have lots of options for making choices.
::  My two favorite professors were Joe Wall and Al Jones. I was actually- political science major, but I took a lot of American history, and they were very supportive and in fact Al directed me to a graduate program and got me into teaching when I didn’t think it was anything I was interested in. It actually became my passion, so... And Joe was very supportive. I had trouble passing the PE requirement to graduate, and he actually went to bat for me-
::  Great.
::  Clothes were interesting. We actually were supposed to wear dresses or skirts to class, when I first came, though, it wasn’t- I mean, I don’t ever remember being told that I couldn’t go to class ‘cause I had pants on.
::  Memory of the town- I have two memories of the town of Grinnell that stand out. I’m sure a bunch but, one was, I was dating a guy from Hawaii and we got hassled as we were walking through town-
::  And another time I had been to the movies and I was crossing the street right by the Poweshiek County Bank, what was the bank, and there was a fire hydrant on the corner and it was a, electrical storm, and I was like two steps into the crossing and lightning hit the fire hydrant, and every hair on my body just stuck out.
::  Grinnell has really changed.
::  And, I was really impressed the last time I was here. I got to sit in on a class and I was really impressed with the teaching of the professors. And it made me feel like it might look different, but it still feels the same.
::  I guess my favorite place on campus was the Forum, which is now in total disrepair, makes me kind of sad. But, it was brand new. It opened mid-year of our freshman year and it was.... a place where, in a college that mostly was pretty formal, you could sit on the floor, you could study in a space without a table, you could drop in, in one room or another, and things would be going on.
::  And I dated several wonderful people but I did not find my husband here. And.... I know that if I were giving myself advice as a young student, I would say.... I did speak up, but speak up more for the things that are important and stay connected to the people that were your friends.
