Sarah Davis:: My name is Sarah Davis Worth. I currently live in Denver, Colorado. And I am a member of the Grinnell College Class of 2000. So, my story is a love story, of course! Yeah, there’s people who met their spouse at college, and yes, it’s very sweet, but my story is better because I didn’t actually meet my spouse at Grinnell. I had just graduated, so I had just turned 22 and I just left school and had moved to
Sarah Davis:: the San Francisco Bay Area to go to graduate school. And there was a Grinnell alumni picnic in August. My roommates, who were also Grinnellians, and I decided that we were going to go to this picnic to connect with all of the other Grinnellians who had gone to the Bay Area after graduation. We thought that was going to be fun. And in the car ride over to the Golden Gate Park, I was telling them that, unrelated to this picnic, it would be really nice to go out on a date with somebody who I didn’t already know everything about them and 
Sarah Davis:: everyone they have ever dated and everything about everything. And so we get to this picnic and we’re chatting with all the other alumni and it’s fun and I had made zucchini bread- it was a potluck- and this nice man takes some zucchini bread and he says it’s really great and I turned around and said thank you and he and I started talking and we were wearing name tags with our class years on it. And so I knew that he was from the class of 1986. He knew that I was from the class of 2000. And we hit it off and he ultimately asked me out to dinner. And I said, “Well this would be perfect, I can go out on a date with this guy. 
Sarah Davis:: He’s a Grinnellian, so I know at least something about him, and he’s gainfully employed and we’ll go out somewhere nice for dinner. And nothing will ever happen, because he’s 14 years older than I am!” Well, we went out for dinner and we got married about two years later. So he is my Grinnell sweetheart, except that he was never my sweetheart here. And it’s funny, because I would tell other Grinnellians that you know, I met this really great Grinnellian, and he and I are dating, or he and I are getting married, or whatever it was. And they said, “Oh! When did he graduate? Do we know him?” 
Sarah Davis:: And I said, “Well, no—he graduated in 1986.” And they said, “Oh, 1996! My brother graduated in ’96.” And I said, “No, not ’96, ’86.” And they’re like, “Really? ’86? That’s old!” And I was like, “Yeah, I know. It is.” But it’s funny because when he and I talk about Grinnell, we have the same stories about the same places and the same experiences, even though our time here was split by 14 years. When he says that as a freshman he lived on Norris 4th, I know what that means. And when we talk about different parties and different places on campus, it’s the same. And he and I even know people in common 
Sarah Davis:: who were classmates of his that then stayed on at the college or whatever- professors we had in common, that kind of thing. So we are married now for eight years and it’s my Grinnell love story!
